The following is a conversation with Commander David Fraver, who was a Navy
pilot for 18 years and commander of the Strike Fighter Squadron 41, also known as
the Black Aces, a squadron of 12 airplanes consisting of several hundred people.
He's also famously one of the people who with his own eyes
saw and chased a UFO, an identified flying object in 2004
that is referred to as the tic tac and the incident more formally referred to as
the USS Nimitz UFO incident. His story corroborated by several other pilots
from my perspective as a curious scientist and an open minded human being
is the most credible sighting of a UFO in history, at least that I'm aware of.
He's a humble, fascinating, and fun human being to talk to. I put out a call for questions
on Reddit and many other places and tried to ask as many of the questions that
people posted as I could. And overall I really enjoyed this conversation
and I'm sure if the world wants us to and if there's more questions to be had
we'll talk on this podcast again. Quick summary of the sponsors, Athletic Greens,
ExpressVPN, and BetterHelp. Please check out the sponsors in the description
to get a discount and to support this podcast. As a side note, let me say that
the world of UFOs and UAPs, unidentified aerial phenomena, and aliens in general,
is foreign to me because of the high ratio of outlandish conspiracy theorists
to actual hard evidence. I'm a scientist first and foremost but an open minded one,
often looking and thinking outside the box. I'm often disheartened by the closed
mindedness of the scientific community. And in equal part, I'm disheartened by
the lack of rigor and basic scientific inquiry and study on the part of the
conspiracy theorists. I believe there's a line somewhere between the two extremes
that, more inquisitive minds should walk. I think we humans know very little
about our world, what's up there among the stars, and the nature of reality,
and the nature of our very own minds. The path to understanding can only be
walked humbly. The very idea that there is a possibility that David witnessed a
piece of technology, whether human made or alien made, that moved in the way did,
should be inspiring to every scientist and engineer on this earth. There may be
propulsion and energy systems yet to be discovered that, once understood and
mastered, will put distant galaxies within reach of us human beings. Paradigm shifts
in science and leaps in understanding can only happen, I think, if we open our
eyes and allow ourselves to dream, to think from first principles, and remove
the constraints and innovation placed on us by the scientific conventions and
assumptions of prior generations. If you enjoy this thing, subscribe on
YouTube, review the Five Stars on Apple Podcast, follow us on Spotify,
support our Patreon, or connect with me on Twitter at Lex Freedman. As usual, I'll
do a few minutes of ads now and no ads in the middle.
More and more, I'm trying to make these ad reads unique and interesting,
and less adzy, more personal, but I give you timestamps so you can skip. But
still, please do check out the sponsors by clicking the links in the
description. It is honestly the best way to support this podcast.
This show is brought to you by Athletic Greens, the all in one daily drink to
support health and performance. I drink it every day to make sure I'm not
missing any of the nutrition I need. Now, let me take a hard left turn and
talk about fasting. I fast often, sometimes intermittent
fasting of 16 hours and then an eight hour eating period of two meals,
sometimes 24 hours, that's one dinner to the next.
I've been even considering doing a 48 or 72 hour fast that some people I look up
to have done. People who have done it tell me that outside of weight loss and
the different health benefits, it's a chance to meditate on the finiteness of
life. Not eating somehow is a reminder that
we're immortal, that every day is precious. I certainly
experienced this with a 24 hour fast and I think it goes even deeper for the
48, 72 and even week long fasts. Anyway, I always break my fast with
Athletic Greens. It's delicious, refreshing, just makes me feel good.
So go to athleticgreens.com slash Lex to claim a special offer, a free vitamin
D for a year. Again, go to athleticgreens.com slash Lex
to get free stuff and to support this podcast.
This show is also sponsored by ExpressVPN.
Get it at expressvpn.com slash Lex pod to get a discount.
You probably know there's a show called The Office that I fell in love with first
with the British version with Ricky Gervais and then the American version
with Steve Carell. ExpressVPN lets you pretend your
location is somewhere else, choosing from nearly 100 different countries
and then watch one of the nine totally different other versions of The
Office and other countries. Also, it protects you when you do shady
things on the internet that you shouldn't be doing.
Like checking the website of this very podcast that for some reason
was not available in Russia for a long time, not sure if it still is,
but if it isn't, you can use ExpressVPN to access it.
I think of ExpressVPN like a pirate ship and regular VPN free life as a boring
cruise from one place to another with no
excitement in between. Choose wisely my friends.
Again, get it on any device at expressvpn.com slash Lex pod
to get an extra three months free and to support this podcast.
This show is sponsored by BetterHelp, spelled H E L P help. Like you would try to spell
if you were on a deserted island and trying to get an airplane to notice you.
Check it out at betterhelp.com slash Lex. They figure out what you need and
match you with a licensed professional therapist and under 48 hours
you can communicate by text anytime and schedule weekly audio and video
sessions. Now, hard left turn, let me talk about
Desert Islands. Whatever you think of it, I love the movie
Cast Away with Tom Hanks and the idea of spending time on an island
alone with potentially no hope. The natural question is, if I could, what
would I bring to this island? The answer is complicated, but let me pick
one thing, the first thing that popped into my
crazy mind, which is the Introduction to Algorithms book,
also called CLRS for the first letters of the last name of its four authors.
I find algorithms beautiful, like a little toolbox for a simple world inside
computers, when the real world outside is an
impossible, chaotic mess. I would love pondering the
puzzles in that book for months, far away from human civilization.
Anyway, check out BetterHelp at betterhelp.com slash Lex
to get a discount and to support this podcast.
And now, finally, here's my conversation with David
Fravor. You're a graduate of the Navy Fighter Weapon School.
Yeah, I am. But are known as Top Gun.
Let me ask the most ridiculous question, how realistic is the movie Top Gun?
So it's funny, we used to joke and a friend of mine who was a Top Gun
instructor said this, there's two things in the
in the original Top Gun that are true, that are very realistic.
One, there is a place called Top Gun, and number two is
they do fly airplanes there. Other than that, you know, I went through
in 97, class 497. There's actually a log of every single
person that's went through, kind of like a SEAL training.
You know, there's a list. So people, because there's a lot of posers out there,
I was a Navy SEAL. No, you weren't. Well, I went to Top Gun. You can actually go to
Top Gun. And matter of fact, just to get a Top Gun patch,
the real patch, you have to have gone there.
So a lot of the patches you see running around are not real. There's
the real ones are controlled, the people that make them
honor that. And when you go in, they look up your name.
If you want to get one, they look up your name, you just tell them, they go,
okay, here, no solemnty. If you are not on the list,
you ain't getting no patch. Because it is, it's a pretty big deal
to go through. But it's, for me, probably one of the best experiences of
flying, because everyone there is extremely competent.
It's very, very challenging, but it's what we all signed up to do.
So it's, it's just the entire group that is, when you want to be that,
you know, that level, you know, where you go, everyone really cares. And everyone
really wants to be good. Is it competitive? Like, was it in the
movie? No, it's, when you go through, it's, you
know, it's, if anything, it's more of the students, you know, and then there's the
instructor side. And the instructor sides are really, you know,
they're guys that you know, they just chose to stay up and
fall in. And it's extremely difficult job,
because they have, they have a very small tolerance for
not being good. So they're brief, the guys, when they give a lecture. So
let's just say there's a fighter employment lecture, which is one of the
hardest ones. It takes about two days to give the fighter employment lecture.
The guy who gives the lecture goes through multiple, they call them murder
boards, where he's scrutinized by his peers and he practices.
By the time they actually stand in front of a class,
they pretty much have their 250 PowerPoint slides memorized,
and they don't even turn around. They just click and they know them in order.
And they repeat the same thing over. It's, and it's standardized.
So they are extremely, extremely standardized when you go through the
school. And there's a reason for that, because what they're doing is they're
training. So when you come out of Top Gun, you're
called a strike fighter, weapons and tactics instructor.
Okay, so your SFTI. When you come out of that, your job is to go usually to one
of the weapons schools on the east or west coast and train the fleet squadrons,
and then you visit the squadrons and train and do upgrade rides and all that.
So there's a, there's a reason that they're extremely particular
when you go through the course. It's, it is literally one of the best things.
And it's not, it's not a rank based thing, because think, oh, Navy,
you can come in as a, you know, like an 04 Lieutenant Commander. The lieutenants,
the hierarchy, well, it used to be, I don't know how it is exactly today,
but I imagine it's the same. The hierarchy is actually based on seniority at the school,
not necessarily rank. So when the tactical decisions are made,
which are based on fact and trying things out in the Fallon ranges,
they set the top X number of folks that have been there seniority wise.
And I mean, time wise are the ones that actually make the decision. And when the door,
you may not agree, but when the door opens and everyone comes out
from the staff, they all speak the same language. It's, and it has to be that way,
which is why the school has been so effective since it was founded.
So it's just a, it's an incredible group of individuals.
So there's a bar of excellence that, that the instructors demand.
Oh, very much so. And they're held to it. So it's not a, hey, I'm now an instructor,
so I can do what I want. There is a standard and they have to live up to that standard.
They have to, and I mean, every moment of every day. So if they go someplace, if they go from
Fallon and they come down and do, they're called site visits where they come down and they'll come
to LeMore, California, which is where the West Coast Fighter Wing is at for the Navy.
And they go around and start flying sorties with the fleet squadrons
to kind of pass on some of that knowledge. That's that same high level of standard. It's,
they can't just drop your guard because you wear the top gun patch and people know that.
And they wear light blue shirts. So it's pretty easy to identify them when they're out there.
And, you know, and then everyone else who's been through the school,
including them, have the patch on their sleeve. So there's a standard that's expected when you
come out of there. So you were a Navy pilot for 18 years. Yes.
Can you briefly tell the story of your career as a pilot?
Yeah. So, you know, first I was enlisted. I was a Marine. And then
the Marines actually sent me, recommended me to go to the Naval Academy. So it's always better
to be lucky than good. But I got to go to the Naval Academy and I finished. And I've had that
dream to fly. So when I got selected, they've always dreamed of flying. Yeah. Since 1969,
when I watched Neil Armstrong walk on the moon, I was, at that point, I asked my mom,
I remember watching it. I was just prior to being five. And I said,
wow, yeah, it's so cool, mom. And she said, well, you know, they were all pilots.
And then at that point, it was like, I'm going to be a pilot. And if you knew me growing up,
because I was a little bit of a delinquent, people are just like, yeah, right. I used to joke,
I'm going to fly, I'm going to fly jets, I'm going to drop bombs. Then, and if people that knew me
when I was a kid, they'd be like, yeah, and they'd be like, not a chance. And then when I did,
I actually had a, this is a funny story and I'll get to it and I'll finish my career. But
I was at my cousin's wedding and we all grew up in the same neighborhood. We kind of,
they had Italian side of the family. That's how we grew up. So it was my house right down the
street. It was my cousin Chad and right around the corner is my cousin Ray and my aunts and uncles
and stuff. The guy two doors down from my, and I was a paper boy in the neighborhood. So they
all knew me. And I went to my cousin's wedding and he, and Mr. Race looks at me and he says,
David Fravor, I go, Mr. Race, how you doing? He goes, you fly jets, top gun and all that. I go,
yes, sir. He goes, man, I figured you'd be in jail by now. And it was kind of a, to me, it was a
little bit of a badge of honor going on. And I kind of overcame that. But what do you attribute that
to? So you, I've heard you before and just now I'll say that it's better to be, it's better to
be lucky than good. And you talk modestly about, about just being lucky. But if you were to describe
your trajectory, maybe in a way of advice, like retrospectively, how'd you pull it off to be
like, to be truly a special person? The easiest way is one never, never take no. Don't let anyone
put you down and say, you can't do it. Or those, I mean, I knew, I knew what I was capable of inside,
you know, and if I really believe if you want something and you want to do something, then you,
you can achieve it. Not in all cases, like if I loved basketball, and I really wanted to be in
the NBA, there's a realism that says, I'm five foot eight, and I got like a really short vertical
leap. And I'm really not that good at basketball. It's probably not ever going to happen, no matter
how hard I try and practice. It's just the way it is. Or for me to be in the NFL, I'm not fast,
you know, I'm not that big. It's just physically, I'm incapable of doing that. But there's things
that don't really tie to a true physical ability as far as size and strength, but it's, it's mental.
And I'm not saying you have to be a genius and super smart to be a fighter pilot. As a matter
of fact, you don't. It really comes down to the ability to think very quickly. 80% solution is
typically good enough because if you overthink it, you're behind. And then in an air to air fight,
that's what happens. People try and overthink it. And before you know it, because it's happening so
fast, you don't have, you can't get to the nth degree, you know, six decimal places. 80% solution
is good enough. You build up a really strong gut for the 80% solution. Just yeah, I'm a big believer
in the 80% solution. I love that. If you get 80% you can go and then you can always adjust,
which is exactly what, like if you're fighting in BFM, the 80% solution is, it's like a chess
game, but it's a really, really fast chess game where you go, I'm doing this. And then I know
that if I do a maneuver, if he's going to counter it correctly, he should do A. If he doesn't do
A, he does some degree less like BCD. And then I know how bad his, his error is. And then I
capitalize. So my, my, I don't have to be perfect. You know, I don't have to go, I need to go to
47 degrees, nose high. If I just kind of get above 40, then I'm good and I can watch how he reacts
and then I can adjust for that. And you, and you continually work that problem and you chip away,
because if you start neutral, you're just basically chipping away and gaining advantage,
advantage, advantage. So eventually, you know, and if you're really, you know, fighting, you know,
just guns only rear quarter where you got to get behind the guy, kind of World War II dogfighting
type stuff, then it's, it's literally, it's a, it's a very, very fast chess game that happens at,
you know, 400 knots, 300 knots depends. So to get to be one of the rear individuals that are able
to do that, he just had the dream and didn't take no for an answer. Well, you know, you know, part
of it is family, you know, my dad was, I used to call him a fire ready aim guy, you know, he'd smack
me and then ask me what I did wrong. Back then, you know, I joke and people look, because, you
know, at times it was kind of tough, you know, because he can be pretty demanding, but on the
other side, you know, I probably needed to be rained in a little bit at times. But then everyone
else, my family, you know, my mom was really awesome when I was a kid. My, my grandfather,
who is a big, big part of it, my mom's dad, who he taught me a lot. And you have a question
there that we'll talk about him, but huge, huge influence, very, very positive. And a lot of
the stuff that I do today and decisions are based on things that he taught me. And, you know, I
figured, you know, it was the first funeral I ever went to, and it was about three miles long and
the church was overfilling and people were out. He was a beer delivery guy, dead serious. And you
go, someone asked who died the Pope. So a lot of people loved him. So back to, back to my career.
Yeah. First question, because I'm getting down at rabbit hole. No, I, when I was at the, I was
going to, I was going to stay in the Marines. I really wanted to go, man, I love the Corps. I
think it's of all services. It's that one, everything is in a ball and they're very, very
professional and it was a great, great organization to join. But I went out to the Nimitz on my
freshman cruise. After your freshman year at the Naval Academy, you go out on a ship and you,
you're an enlisted person. You get to experience that half when I was enlisted. So it's fine with
me. Because it comes up a lot. You mind saying what the Nimitz is, what a ship is. Yeah. So
Nimitz is an aircraft carrier. So it's four and a half acres of sovereign U.S. territory that floats
around the U.S. oceans. Does it have weapons on it? The air wing is really the weapons.
It does have defensive weapons, but for the most part it's a giant moving airport is what it is.
So I was out there watching the airplanes land and take off. And I'm like, oh, and the squadrons
that were out there, one of the squadrons was a VF 41 and F 14 squadron, VF 84 and F 14 squadron,
and then a couple of A6 squadrons. And we actually ended up part pairing up and hanging out with some
of the A6 pilots and BNs. So it was really a neat experience. And I said, I want to do that.
And the way to do it was to not, to go in the Navy because there are marine squadrons that go out
to the aircraft carriers, but most of them are land based, you know, to support the Marines,
because they're that, that unit, that whole unit, you know, the Marine Corps is at one surface as
at all. And so when I graduated and I got to, you know, I worked hard through primary and that's
where, you know, I knew Missy. We were in, actually went through together, Missy Cummings.
We went through primary together. And then I went to Kingsville. We all selected the same time.
I went to Kingsville. There was another guy, Scott Weedemire, the three of us. So I went to
Kingsville, Scott went to Beaville and Missy went to Meridian. So the three of us that we had all
went through, we got, we selected out of primary together, we all ended up going jets. And that's,
that's how, besides from school, I knew her at school too. The long story I got done, got winged,
it took me two years to the day from the time I graduated the Naval Academy until I got my wings.
And through some luck, I ended up getting A6s on the West Coast, which is a side by side
bomber. So it's a pilot on the left seat and the Bombardier navigators on the right seat. It was
built in the 60s. It is all weather and it flies low at night. It's got a terrain mapping radar.
How many, I guess, is that a good term to use fighter jets as a broad category for,
for the public? Yeah, that's fine. How many fighter jets are side by side like that?
That was, in the Navy, that was the only one. The Air Force, the F111 was a side by side,
but the Navy, it was the A6. And then there's the EA6B, which is a derivative of
that. Now that those are all gone. The EA6Bs just went away a few years ago. And now the E18G
Growler is the replacement for the EA6B. There was never a replacement for the A6 that I flew.
It really became the F18, which the A6 could go quite a bit further distance wise by fuel.
Then the Hornet. The Hornet is the F18. Is there usually two people in the plane, but they're
usually like in front and behind? In the modern two seaters, yes. But most of the tactical
airplanes in the world today are single seat. Single seat is just one person. One person.
With the exception of, I'll probably, someone will yell at me, but really with the exception of
the F15E Strike Eagle and the F18F Super Hornet, which is the F is a two seater. And the G is also
a two seater, but it's more of an electronic attack by, say, full up fighter bomber.
So most of the time that you've flown in your, like I said, 18 year career, was a two seater?
That was about half and half. So I started off an A6 was a two seater. Then I went to single seat
F18s and I flew those all the way up until 2000 and let me think, 2001 to the end of 2001.
And then I shifted over and started flying the Super Hornets and I've flown both of those,
the E's and the S, but I deployed when I had command of VFA 41. I had the two seat. They were F squadron.
So you eventually ended up commanding the, the strike fighter squadron 41. I love the, the name,
the black aces. What, is there some parts of that journey that are amazing parts of it that are tough
that kind of stand out? To me, it was, one, it was a huge honor. And I got to serve with,
you know, I got pulled up because the guy, the people that are exos, because we fleet up,
you go from the number two guy to the number one guy. So the exo becomes the CEO. So the
executive officer becomes the commanding officer. So I had worked with, now soon to be Vice Admiral
Weitzel, was the, he was commander Weitzel at the time was the exo. And he really wanted,
because he knew there was a little bit of a problem when the Super Hornets came into LeMore.
LeMore had been a single seat fighter community since the forever. And now all of a sudden you've
got the F18F coming in, which has the weapon systems operators in the back that are not pilots,
they're weapon systems operators. And there's a difference. And Kenny is a weapon systems operator.
And Kenny knew because of my A6 background that I have a switch that I can go one seat, two seat,
one seat, two seat. Because when you fly two seat, there's a lot of stuff that the pilot will
offload and take the advantage of the weapon systems operator. And it's not that one plus
one equals two in that environment, because it really, there's a huge amount of capabilities
that the single seat has and the autonomy that comes for the ability to make decisions quickly
and how well the airplane flies. But it does, it does equal more than one. And I would say
that one plus one with two people as well is a minimum of 1.5. Because you've got an extra head,
you've got extra eyes, you've got someone that can monitor systems, the airplanes can do two
things at once. I mean, there's an incredible amount of capability that we add when we do that.
Can we just pause on that? Just for me, from like a human factors perspective and also an AI
perspective, what's, how difficult, so there's like, when there's two people, there's also a
third person that's the AI part, the some level of automation, like autopilot, maybe that's correct,
maybe you can kind of talk about the psychology of like, you said, making decisions really quick,
80%. How do you deal with another brain working with you? And then also the automation, is there
interesting interplay that you get to learn? And also as that changed throughout your career,
I imagine it got, it gotten better in terms of the automation, or perhaps not?
Well, I can tell you, so let's start. No, this is good. This is good. And this is,
I'm enjoying this because now we actually get to talk about something other than a tic tac. So
let's start with the A6. The A6 was really an analog airplane that was built in the 60s.
All right. And there's been studies done on the crew coordination, which is the interaction
between the pilot and the bombardier navigator. So we would fly low at night in the mountains.
So I was stationed up in Whidbey Island, Washington. So you've got the Cascades and
incredible amount of time. And we would get in the simulators because unlike, normally people
think terrain following, and there's the radars, the 111, the B1 has a system like this, but it'll,
the radar can see and it'll fly, it basically flies a straight line. So it goes up and over
mountains and back down and up and over mountains where the A6 was really manual.
So you do this low level routes where you're going to, you're going to fly in the mountains at night,
you're going to be at, you know, 500 to 1,000 feet above the ground, ripping through like fog
layers, because you don't need to see outside. You're, you're literally flying a little TV screen
and a radar. What are you looking at most of the time? So just as a screen? It's this really
primitive. If you look at it now, what we did, you'd think, wow, that was crazy, but it was really
fun. So is it similar to like the FLIR stuff? Is that, are you? No, this thing is totally
radar based. Now the airplane had a FLIR ball, it's a target recognition and multi sensor,
it was called a tram. So you're looking at like basically like dots of hard objects?
No, actually what it is is the, the bomb of your navigator had a radar and he was getting raw feet
off of a pulse radar in front. Okay. So it's just basically mapping the mountain. So if you look at
a mountain on a radar and you're coming up on it, the front side is going to be, it's going to give
you a really bright return. And then the backside, it's just going to be a giant shadow because you
can't see on the other side. So the bombardier navigators would do that and they would have
charts and they could shade their charts knowing that, hey, if we turn a little bit left here,
we can get in this valley, we can sneak up this valley and then go around the backside of the
mountain, which is what the airplane would do. And sorry to interrupt, I'm going to just keep
asking dumb questions, I apologize. But the pilot, can you at a high level say what the pilot does
versus the bombardier? Yes. So you're actually just controlled. I'm flying the jet. I have the
throttles, the stick and I have a, it's about a probably a four inch or six inch wide by maybe
four inches, five inches high. It looks like it's literally a CRT. That's how old it is.
A CRT screen and what it would do, what the radar would do is the, the, the bombardier
navigator is looking at his radar and he's looking at about 12 and a half miles in front of the
airplane. So he has the range really scoped down because the radar can see a lot further.
He's looking at about 12 and a half miles when we're in the terrain mode where we're
dodging mountains and stuff. And what the pilot has is there's, they're called range bins and
there's eight of them. So the very far range bin is the 12 and a half mile, you know, and
the closest range bin, it's a thing and it'll be like between like a half a mile and
a quarter mile to three quarters of a mile. And the next one might be three quarters of a
mile to two miles. And then it just keeps going out like that. So if there's a mountain in front,
let's say we're on a flat plane and there's a mountain out in the distance at 15 miles,
and we, we're just driving right at it. So when we get to the point where it hits 12 and a
half miles where the radar is going to see it on his scope, my 12, my range bin for that would
pop up and it would show like a big bump, like a mountain. And then as I got closer to it,
the next range bin would pop up and show it. And I could see that that bump was moving towards me.
And then if I turned a little bit, you know, to go over here, I'd see the mountain go over to
the right hand side and I could do that. But it wasn't like a video game. It was, it's literally
like, if you think of the original Atari's. Yeah. But you build up, I imagine that you start to get
a really deep sense of like the actual three, three D environment based on that little Atari.
You're exactly right. And you have to, you have to train. So there's been studies.
As a matter of fact, a lot of the basis and people probably argue with me, but it's true.
There were studies done watching a six crews in our simulators, we call it the WIST,
the Weapon Systems Trainer. And it was not even a motion, it just kind of sat there and
you just, you could fly these things and they had trained that they would inject into the system.
But the crew coordination, so you get, so my first fleet, Bombardier Navigator, who I'll name him,
his name is Crusado, he's works at Apple, pretty high up, MIT grad. I think computer engineering,
he's scary smart. So Chris could really work. As a matter of fact, all the guys that flew us,
so there's another guy, Matt, who also worked at Apple, who's now at SAP, we did our first
night traps together. The bond between us, I mean, it's one of those things that you just,
you're never going to forget, but Chris and I, when we started flying together and we were
actually the most junior crew in the squadron, we'd spent a lot of time training and Chris was
amazing at how he could work the system. One, because he was extremely brilliant and he had
that inquisitive mind of, oh, we could do all these different things and there's all these
degradation modes. But we spent a lot of time to see how good we could actually get because,
and it's, you almost talk in partial. So as the BN is looking at his radar scope, Chris would say,
I've got rising terrain, that's just what they say, showing rising terrain at 12 miles. And I'd
see the little bump and I'd say, got it. This is going to go to your question on the autonomy and
how you work with two heads. Yes. So when you first get together, the interaction, it's almost
like you have to rehearse it, you have to know, and you talk in full senses. The more and more
we fly together, Chris could go, I'm showing, and he'd get like rising out. And before he finished,
I'd say, I've got it. So you end up starting to talk in partials because I have to trust him
like, I mean, I had, there can be no, I can have no doubt that he knows how to do his job.
Because I'm literally looking at this little scope that's not giving me this continuous
picture of that mountain moving. Remember the mountains here, and then it's going to pop up
here. And then it's going to pop up here because there's gaps in the coverage on how the system
was set up. Remember, it's an analog system to where he is telling me, like, I can't see all
the way to the left, and he's got a wider scope on the radar, but my screen doesn't show that.
So he's telling me, start a left turn, or start a hard turn, you know, and we would do that. So
my trust is all happening quick, very quick. Well, you're doing, we would typically fly between
420 and 480 knots of ground speed. Well, for 27 miles a minute. Okay. Or between seven and eight
miles a minute is what you're flying at night. I mean, I broke out of clouds. I mean, I remember
him and I flying. We were on its IR, it's called an IR route, an instrument route that's low.
They're all around the country. There's IR 344 that we used to fly, which would coast in off of
Oregon. You'd fly from the land, you go out over the ocean, turn around, and then you could practice
actually coming in on a coastline. And we were flying, and we ended up in the clouds. Keep in
mind, we're between 500 and 1,000 feet in the mountains, and we're in the clouds. Like, you
can't see anything. And it had to turn off our red lights that flash, you know, they're called
the anti collision lights because it was reflecting off the clouds and it starts to bother you.
It just gets annoying. So I turned it off and we were flying, we're flying, we're flying, we
break out of that coastal marine layer and we break out. And it's a decent night. And this is
right by Mount St. Helens. This is kind of where we're coming in. So we're coming in from the east
and we're just north of Mount St. Helens is where the route goes. And you look up, you know,
because you can kind of see the silhouette of this mountain that's right next to you,
but you're flying along here just like, you know, you got to trust. And you can see houses,
you can see the lights that are above you. We're literally below people's houses flying down these
valleys and stuff. So just incredible experience. So when you take that and then you move into
an F18F. So now we're into modern technology that was actually built in this century
in your flying. So now, you know, the WIZO is behind us and we're not doing those night low
levels, but that same type of crew coordination that has to happen because what you're doing is
you're sharing the load. So most of the communications that go out of the airplane,
the WIZO does all the talking. He's got actually, he uses his feet. That's the
weapon systems operator in the back of an F18F. So he's going to run, well,
the radar kind of runs itself now, but we have a situational awareness display and it's linked
to all the other airplanes. Just a curiosity, what's the situational awareness display?
Because that term comes up a lot. Think of it as a God's eye view. So if you have a,
the back of the Super Hornet has, well, the Block 2s has about an 8x10 display for the WIZOs
that they can look at. The pilot is smaller. It's down between us. It's a 6x6 between his legs
and they're, they're getting ready to redesign that Boeing is, but when you look, it'd be like
if you put your airplane and you're looking down. So all the stuff, like if your radar seeing bad
guys out in front of you, it'd be like looking down, going, oh, I'm right here and now there's
bad guys out here and my wingman is over here and it shows everything. It's just like, it gives you,
you can look at that display and go, oh, I can see where everything's at. I can see if one guy's
trying to target another guy, it shows you all this. It's an incredible amount of knowledge that
comes up for the crews to maintain the overall picture of what's going on.
The big picture sense of what's going on.
Because it's happening so fast and this is with that autonomy piece. This is the third brain.
So we're all looking at it and the third brain is doing fusion. It's pulling stuff together,
going, oh, this is all this guy. This is this guy. This is this guy. It's sending it out through
the link. So all the airplanes are talking to each other through this digital network,
you know, that we don't even see. It just says that airplane says, hey, I'm over here and it
tells us and we go, oh, he's right there. And then we can go, his airplane says, oh, I'm looking at
this airplane, this bad guy and it shows us. Oh, he's over there and he's looking at this guy.
I mean, it's an incredible amount of visual intake because your eye, you can hear a lot,
but when you look down at stuff itself, you know, you can sell the picture really quick.
The third brain is doing the sensor fusion, the integration of the different sensors and
gives you a big picture view. What about the control? Like, is there, and I apologize if this
is a dumb question, but, you know, people use the high level term of autopilot. How much is there,
let's use a loose term of AI. How much automation is there? How much AI is there in helping you
control the airplane? The AI piece would be more of a control loop because of the digital flight
controls. So the airplane actually, they had to make the airplane easier to fly. And when I say
easy, it's relative because people go, I can do it because I did it on FlightSim. Real life is a
lot different. In FlightSim, you have no apparent fear of death. You'll do things in the simulator
that you would never do in real life. But the autonomy in the airplane to allow you to manage,
I mean, because you think about it, you've got a radar that's feeding you data. You've got a
targeting pod that's feeding you data. All that stuff is hooked to your head because you've got
a joint helmet mounting queuing system on that basically maps the magnetic field in the cockpit
so it can tell where your head's at looking. So if I turn my head to the right, the radar will
actually look to the right. The targeting flare will look to the right. And oh, by the way,
the backseater has a helmet on too, so he can look to the left and he can do things. So depending
on what sensor he's controlling, so if he's got control of the targeting pod and he looks left,
the targeting pod looks left. But if I have something where I want to lock a guy up that I
don't see that maybe the radar didn't see, but I can get over and now point the radar,
you know, get the, because it's a phase array radar, now it doesn't really scan.
There's all kinds of cool stuff that technology brings because if you just,
if you went back 30 years and said, hey, or 40 years ago and said, hey, we're going to have
this helmet and you're going to be able to slew everything to your head. And I don't mean a
mechanical setup, but I mean literally you're just going to map magnetic resonance and go, oh,
look, and, and I can, I can literally slew my sensors this fast and then mash a button and
transfer, you know, high quality coordinates from a system into a joint, you know, a JDAM,
which is a joint direct attack munition that is the GPS bombs that you see all the time and then
let that thing fly and I'm, I'm solving this problem in seconds, vice minutes or hey, I got it,
we're going to have to menstruate coordinates and you know, you bring back the data and then
they do all the targeting for it and then they send another group out to get it. Instead of all that,
now it's that fast. So there's a, okay, I mean, we probably don't have enough time to talk about
the beautiful fusion of minds that happens when two people are flying, controlling the plane.
But at a high level, this is a really interesting question for people who don't know what they're
talking about like me, which is what is the difference between a human being and an AI system?
Like what can, what is the ceiling of a current AI technology for controlling the plane? Like,
how much does the human contribute? Is it possible to have automated flight, for example,
like what is the hardest part about flying that a human does expertly that an AI system cannot
in warfare situations, in, in flying fighter jet line?
So I would say AI systems are usually black and white. When you write the algorithm for an AI system,
it's, it's, it's, it's really, it's basically you're taking thought and turning it into a
giant math problem is really what you're doing. Right? So you've got this logical math problem.
Math problems are, there's, there's, there's a line it says I can or I can't. And it's a,
it's a very finite line, you know, but you can go up to the line where a human, we all have gray
areas where we go, maybe I'll try it. So humans can operate within that gray. So if you took,
if you take an airplane and say, and I'll just take a Hornet for a while, a Super Hornet,
it doesn't matter any airplane, and you go, here is the flight performance model of the airplane.
So if you know an, an EM diagram is the energy. So it basically says the airplane can fly as slow
as this, it can go as fast as this, it can pull this many Gs force of gravity, you know, so one,
two, three, four, five, six, seven. And then based on the airfoil design and everything else and how
it can pull, here's how it's going to fly, you know, because it's really physics based.
Well, if you, depending on how you write the AI, but typically AI, you don't want the airplane
to leave controlled flight, right? You want to maintain it so that it is flying in a controlled
envelope where there are times, and you can go back to World War One, where people intentionally
departed the airplane from controlled flight in order to obtain an advantage, which is that's
where the human goes, can I do this? I know it's outside of where I would normally go,
but I can do that. So you can do some crazy things now, especially since the flight control logic
in modern airplanes with digital flight controls, they're extremely forgiving. So you can literally,
I've done things in Super Hornets that literally even as a pilot inside the airplane, you're just
like, wow, I cannot believe it just did that. Like it'll flop ends, which defies most logic. And I
guess, you know, in a way you could probably program it, but I still think that when you get to the
edges that may or may not give you an advantage, there are things that a human will do that AI
won't. And I don't think we've got to the point because how do you map illogical solutions? You
know, most AI is logical. It's based on some type of premise. When you write the algorithm to control
it, there's bounds. Yeah, there's this giant mess. Like you said, the difference between the
simulator in real life also gets at that somehow, that there is somehow the fear of death, all of that
beautiful mess comes into play. Like, is there a comment you can make on commercial flight,
like with Sally landing that plane famously versus the simulator, all of those discussions,
is there some? Well, it's very, it's very similar to what I was talking about earlier with the A6.
So one is when you're flying with a crew, there's standardization. So you got to remember when
Sully flew when his first officer, that's the co pilot showed up, you know, the first time they
met. And this happens all the time in the commercial world. You know, there's six, seven
thousand pilots at United Airlines, you know, your chance of flying with the same guy all the time is
slim and none. We're in the Navy, we were crewed. So I had a primary and a secondary
whizzo that flew with me for months. Oh, yeah, for like all of the deployment. So because you want
to use trust and all of those things, it increases the capability airplane. It's not to say we can't
swap out. But for true effectiveness, especially in very complex missions like a forward air
controller, we're in the air actually controlling ground assets and supporting ground troops.
If you're in a high threat area, which is crazy busy, you have to be melded when you do that. You
have to have trained to do that job. Otherwise, you're going to be ineffective. So when you get to
the commercial world, and I've got tons of friends that fly commercial, there is a standardization.
Like we know that at this point, I'm going to put this switch, you're going to do that. And
everyone, they know their rules. Captain's going to do this, first officer's going to do this.
He breaks out. So in Sully's case, when they take the birds and they know they've got a problem,
and if you've listened to the cockpit recordings of him, the two of them talking,
you got to remember, they're talking to each other when you hear the full tapes, but they're
also talking to the air traffic controllers in the New York area. And it's like, we got a bird
strike and the first officer already knows, hey, silence the alarm. They silenced the alarm. The
first officer is pulling out the book. He's going through the procedures while Sully's actually
flying the airplane, knowing that they've lost their motors. And you got to think of his decision
process, like they're trying to get him to go into an airport in New Jersey. And he realizes,
not happening, we're going to put this thing. And he made a decision soon enough
so that he could prepare everyone on the airplane that he was going to put this thing
in the Hudson River. And he did it flawlessly. I mean, every single person walked away from that
wreck. The only thing that didn't survive was the airplane, you know, and it got fished out of
the Hudson. But what is it about those human decisions he had to make? Is that something
you put into words? Or is that just deep down some instinct that you develop as a pilot over
time? It's when we, when you train, you know, an aviation is a self cleaning oven. So if you
make bad decisions, you're, and the list is long and distinguished of those who have died by making
bad decisions. Oh man. So when you look at what he did or the way we train, because the commercial
industry and the Navy and the Air Force for all that, we have what's called, we have emergency
procedures that we have to know. Like the engines on fire, the first three steps, you just have to
know what they are, right? So they know the airline, same type, you know, they go, Hey,
I know this is they pull the book out because the airplanes are designed, they're built to have some
time. But there's a point where you have to make a decision and you can't second guess it. So when
he decided, I'm putting this in the Hudson River, he couldn't all of a sudden halfway through it go,
Well, maybe I can get over to that airport. He looked, he made a quick assessment. This is that
80% solution where you go, these are not, you know, it's kind of like a multiple choice test
when you go, Oh my God, I don't really know the answer. But I know A and D are wrong. Yeah.
Gone. So the Jersey airport and going back to LaGuardia, gone. Yeah. So what's my next option?
Well, the Hudson River is there. That's probably looking pretty good. Or what is my other one?
Can I get a restart on the motors? And then if I can get a restart, now can I take it someplace
else? He had to make really, really fast decisions. And then once they as a, they go that 80%
solution, you realize, all right, I'm going into the Hudson, there's the 80%, get the book out,
let's see if we can get an air start because if you listen to the tapes are trying to get it
air started, the closer he gets to the water, the more he's going, I'm ditching the airplane.
So the original decision to this is my best option right now. This is where I'm going.
And you start eliminating anything that could possibly change the events,
which they tried to do. And then he gets to that last minute says, we're going in the water,
they changed the plan, they secure the airplane, they do exactly what they're
doing. And he does that basically flawless landing on the Hudson. But you got to remember
every, it's every six months for commercial, they go back and they do research in the airplane
in the simulator, were they trained to the airplane being broken, you just lost a motor,
you just lost another motor. So they go through this extensive training, you know, and all these,
and it's, you know, we used to refer to it in the Navy as the pain cave where you're going to get
in, because you know, that when you get in for your check ride in a simulator that the airplane
is going to break, you're going to lose hydro and it's sometimes they're a problem like, oh,
I just lost this hydraulic system, but I'm having an issue on the other motor. Well,
if I shut down this motor, I've got a hydraulic, you know, because there's two hydraulic systems,
one on each motor. Well, if I've got an issue with the left motor hydraulic system and my right
motor is starting to give me indications, do I want to shut the right motor down because that's
going to kill my hydraulic system, that's good. And now I'm flying on a good motor with a bad
hydraulic system and with a hydraulic airplane won't fly. So they, it's a really, they're
challenging problems that you have to think through in real time. And of course, the weather's
never good. It's always dark. It's always crappy. You're going to break out. I mean, it's just,
all this stuff gets compiled on top of you and it's intended to increase the level of stress,
because when things happen, like in Sully's case, we like to joke, it's going to stem power,
you know, where the functional part of your brain shuts down and you are literally on
instinct like an animal. Well, if you've trained so much that that is the instinctive reaction
that you're going to have, when the main part of your, your, your cognitive ability start to shut
down, you're, you're running that instinct is ingrained so much into you that you know exactly
what to do. And that's literally how it happens. So there's no, how do I put it, fear of death?
Like in Sully's case, do you think he was at all ever thinking about the fact if his decision is
wrong, a lot of people are going to die? You know, I can't speak for him, but I would say
there was so much going on at the cockpit in that time. His, his mindset was probably,
I can do this. I'm trained. I'm going to do the procedures. I've practiced this before. I've done
these things. And I, you know, I'm assuming that in his mindset, because I never thought about
when things were really bad, you know, if you're having problems with the airplane that, you know,
that I was going to moor, you know, and, and plant it into the ground. It was always, you know,
maybe it's an ego thing where you think I can do this. I mean. So you never, have you experienced
fear during flight? Like, I mean, one, one way, we just offline mentioned Mike Tyson. I mean,
he talked about like, uh, as he's, uh, walking up to the ring, he's like, he starts out basically
in fear and, uh, yeah, worried about how things are going to go. I mean, it's purely to put in
towards his fear, but as he gets closer and closer to the ring is the confidence grows and grows until
the ego basically takes over to where you think there's no way anybody could, uh, defeat me.
So like that's, that's his experience of overcoming fear. But do you, uh, did you
experience any kind of thing like that? Or is that, or do you just go to the part of the brain
that goes to the training and then you just go to the instinctual 80% solution?
I wouldn't say I was never afraid. I think that would be, I can't, I couldn't tell you that
anyone I know that wasn't afraid at one time. And for most of us, especially Navy carrier pilots,
it's just, it's, it's usually, especially when you're new and you got to go out and it's night
time and there's no moon and the weather sucks and the decks moving, you know, the, the ship's
going up and down because it will scare the ever living shit out of you. Can I say that?
You definitely say that. So it's about landing and take off that.
That is if you, even the, they used to wire people up. They did it during Vietnam,
you know, guys that go flying missions, you know, when they were flying low and crazy stuff was
going on and people were getting shot down a lot. The highest, the highest anxiety and
heart rates were coming back to land on board an aircraft carrier.
How hard is it to land on that? It seems impossible. Like for, for a civilian, I guess,
like me, just seems crazy that a human can do that.
The problem with night is, and there's different degrees of night, just like day. I mean,
there's the clear full moon night, you know, where it's like, whoo.
You know, this is not that bad, but you got to remember at night, I think everyone can associate
with you're driving in your car and it's just a, it's, it's an overcast, dark night and you're on
a country road with no side lights. Most people have a tendency to slow down just by nature of,
oh my God, because you, what you'll do is you'll out drive your headlights because it is so dark,
you know, and you can get outside a, you get outside a city and get up in New Hampshire,
especially when the roads are curving, you know, and the lines probably aren't that good.
It's, you know, now take that and multiply it by like a million because you have no depth perception.
What you think is fixed, the runway is actually moving.
Up and down and left to the right.
Yeah. Oh, and when it's really bad, you can actually see it move. And we have two systems,
you know, there was a, there's an automatic system that's actually, it stabilizes with
the inertials on the ship. And then there's the ILS. Now, civilian pilots will tell you that ILS
is a precision approach, which gives you azimuth and glide slope, you know, you come down, it's
like a plus on the carrier. It's not, it's really just a beam that goes out and it's considered
a nonprecision approach. It's not stabilized at all that. And I've been where you can actually
watch the needle and the, and the, the tack and needle will move. There's all kinds of stuff moving
because the, the base that it's all sitting on is doing this. And ships don't just go up and down.
They, they, they do this. So the bow goes up and down in the tail, like you normally see a ship.
And then there's, so that's pitch. And then it has roll. So it's doing this. And then it has
heave. So the whole boat is going up and down while it's pitching and rolling. And you're gonna
land on that. So, and it's, I mean, I remember landing us, I was with Chris Sado and Chris and
I, we were off the USS Ranger, which is now decommissioned. It's sitting, getting turned into
razor blades. We're flying the old A6 and we come in and it was off of San Diego and it was just
ugly night because San Diego always has a marine layer that is about 1200 feet. It was lower than
that that night. And it was pouring down rain. It was an El Nino year and there's thunderstorms
all around. It was just the craziest night I've ever seen out of San Diego. And I remember landing
and your adrenaline is so high that you're shaking. I mean, you literally can't stop.
And we had spun around out of the landing area and we parked, we call it the six pack. So it's
right in front of the island. So if you've seen aircraft carrier of the island and the number
of the ship on it, we're sitting right in front of that and we're looking at the landing area.
So it's like, you get front row seats to the concert. And, and this, this, this EA6B comes in,
you know, ugly pass, he ends up catching a one wire, which is the first one you never want to
catch the first one. It means you're not really high above the back of the ship when you landed.
And it comes in and the exhaust on any A6 or an A6 actually points kind of down and it blows and it's
blowing all the standing water on the aircraft. That's how hard it's raining. And you literally
could not see across. I mean, I could see the front of my airplane, his airplane, and then it
was just white because of the water being blown off the deck. And I'm shaking and I, I'll never
forget. I looked over at Chris and I said, Oh my God, I go, Hey, dude, man, 10,000 foot runway
looks really good right now. And I go, and I'm shaking my hands like this. And I said,
I'm not even, this is, I'm not faking this dude. I know that's literally, I cannot stop shaking.
I said, that scared the Evelyn out of me. Yeah. But you, but it scares you afterwards.
You don't, during it, you're not, I'm not, you don't have time to think about that. You're doing
it. You got to do as we, you know, kind of the quote from Tom Hanks and what's that, the girl's
baseball movie where he goes, there's no crying in baseball. Well, that's our joke. There's no
crying in naval aviation. I said, you can fly around and cry all you want at night. But,
but you know, there's only one pilot in those airplanes and you got to land it. So you cry
all you want, wipe the tears away, you know, put on your big kid pants and it's, it's time to,
it's time to, you know, man up and land the, land the jet. Sorry for the romantic question,
but going back to the, the kid that dreamed to fly, what's it like to fly an airplane?
What it looks incredible as a human, like a descendant of eight, I sit here on land and
look up at you guys. It seems incredibly human being can do that.
You know, people ask, you know, I'll be sitting around with my friends and they're like,
well, as I said, the greatest job on the planet. I said, you know, it's, it's an office with a
view because you're sitting in a glass. You can do, you know, it's like roller coasters,
you go, oh, it does all these cool stuff. So we take people flying every once in a while.
And it's like, oh, yeah, I like roller coaster. Like, oh, no, take any roller coaster,
coolest roller coaster you've ever been on and multiply it by a thousand. I said, it's an experience,
you know, to put your body under, you know, you know, the jets rated at seven and a half,
but it'll pull up to 8.1 before it overstresses depends on fuel weight. So, I mean, you routinely
get up there towards eight Gs. To be able to do that to your body, I mean, it takes a toll,
like I can't really turn my head real good anymore and stuff like that. But would I trade it? I mean,
it was a childhood dream. And how many people get to do that? You know, professional, I want to be
an NFL, you know, and you end up to the NFL, which is a very small percentage with, well,
I want to fly jets and, and to fly, you know, at the time when I was flying the Super Hornets that
we had on our squadron were brand new, like literally right out of the factory, I'd come off
our first Super Hornet cruise, we had went to the Boeing factory in St. Louis where they were
building my new jets that I was going to get and actually signed the inside of one of the wings
while they were putting it together. So I'm meeting the people that are putting the jet
together that's going to get delivered to me in a couple of months that I'm going to fly. So
just, I mean, the whole of it is incredible. I'll tell you what, when I left, when I decided to
walk away. Yeah, do you miss it? I told myself I wouldn't. I promised myself that, you know,
once you get through your O5 command, you're flying really starts to tag to come down. You know,
even if you and you're an airplane commander, which is we call them CAG, carrier group commander,
you're not flying as much as like the normal pilots, nor should you be. I mean, there's young
people that are coming up and it's training your relief because that's the next generation. So
like currently, I have friends of mine that we serve together, their kids are flying Super
Hornets, right? So to me, that's really neat because I watched them when they were little.
Yeah. And now, you know, one of them who was good friends, I won't get his last name, but Joey,
who lived down the street from us, was a top gun instructor. And I'm like, hey, Joey's a top gun.
You know, and I'm like, that's cool. Because, you know, I went there and I knew him, he would come
down to my house. And now to see these kids that are, because typically military breeds military,
you know, because the kids grew up in it. I mean, the only reason that my son is not doing it is
he's colorblind. So it disqualifies you for being a pilot, being a seal, because he'd talked about
doing that because he's an incredible swimmer and he likes doing that stuff and water polo player.
But he's, you know, both of my kids are, well, my daughter is a doctor and my son's in his third
year or so. But there's a, I suppose, I mean, from my perspective, a bittersweet handover
of this incredible experience of flying to the younger generation. So you don't, you told
yourself you're not going to miss it. You miss it?
There are days I do. When I hear jets, like if I'm around a base or a jet flies over,
but I have all the memory. So I can look at it and go, it can't go on forever. You know,
Tom Brady can't play football. There's going to come a time where he has to stop.
I know, he seems to have done it for a long time.
But, you know, typically when you look at ego, I had the opportunity,
and I think as automation moves on, especially with AI, that, you know, when will, when will
the last manfighter be built? You know, and that's that big question. You know, we just did F35.
It's over budget. It's seven years late. There's all kinds of issues when we try and do it.
And then you look at some of the new stuff that's coming out that the Air Force is working on with
smaller, cheaper, a treatable platforms that you can go, oh, we can, because if you don't put a man
in the box or a person, because there's a lot of incredibly talented women that do this too.
So I'll just say that as person. Yeah. So we say man and he, we mean both men and women,
because offline you've told me about a lot of incredible women that flown. So it's,
I had, I had three, three female, actually four, one of them didn't fly anymore. She actually lives
right around here. She, she's, she ended up going into aircraft maintenance when she couldn't fly
anymore. One of the girls who everyone knows is incredibly, she's one of the most gifted people
I've ever met in my life. She is the vice president of Amazon Air. You can see her on TV or named
Sarah. Incredible. And then I had a page who ended up taking command. She got out of fighters and
went into other platforms. And she was a commanding officer. And then the other one is a,
a, teaches leadership and she is all three of them, actually all four of the women that were
direct. I'm home not forgetting. I don't think I'm forgetting someone.
Incredibly, incredibly talented and a great addition to the ready room. So anyone who gets
into the, oh, you know, women can't do it. That's all total horse crap. Hey, you know,
we can talk about the original integration and stuff, which was not done well by the military
nor the Navy. So women can fly as good as the guys. Yeah. You can't tell if you pass another
airplane, you can't tell if there's a man or a woman in it. It really comes down to stick and
throttle the ability to extrapolate where the vehicle is going to be, where the airplane would
be. If you're fighting another one, you have to be able to think fast. Anyone has those characteristics
can do it. And then I think most important besides that, there has to be a desire.
Yeah. And I'm not saying that everyone, if you took, because we used to track. So when I ran,
we call it the RAG, it's the replacement air group. It's where, so the, the Super Hornet
Training Squadron, there's two of them. There's one on the East Coast, 106. And there's one on the
West Coast, which is VFA 122. 122 is the first one. So I ended up going there and I ended up
being the operations officer and training officer. Okay. So we tracked the last hundred students.
Right. So everyone goes, ah, it's funny to hear students talk because, oh, he's awesome.
He's great. If you took the hundred, there's three at the top of the list that are just
naturally gifted aviators. They're well, well, well above average. It's like the person in
a math class that sits down in complex math and they just get it. You know, at the bottom,
there's the three at the bottom that are going to struggle and there's a good chance they won't
get out. And if they do get out, they're going to have to work really hard to just maintain
kind of average. Sometimes it's just the way your mind works. Not everyone is good at everything.
If you took the 94 of them in the middle, they're within one mean deviation of, you know, it's there.
They're all, you know, it's a, the bell curve doesn't look real good. It's just a big hump and it
comes back down and everyone's right there within one mean deviation. And then you have the outliers
usually not on the high side because they're going to get through, but the outliers on the
low side that don't make it through. So for the most part, the Navy does a really good job as
does the Air Force of screening. So now what they do, when I went, you just showed up and
you started. Now what you do is you actually go fly a Piper Warriors low wing to see, can you,
are you adaptable to this? And there's an evaluation that goes through. And then if you
hit a certain mark, then you're good to go. And then they put you into primary. It's kind of like a,
it's like a precheck, you know, like the preset, the pre SAT to go, Hey, how am I going to do on
the SAT? It's, it's very similar to that, but it's more of a hand skill. Can you adapt? Because
although we live in three dimensions, like this table is not, you know, we, this is, you know,
this is all has depth with all that. We're, it's really relative to aviation. We are two
dimensional, very two dimensional. Can you explain that? So our perception is actually
more limited than the, than that of an aviator. Very much. And here's why. So we look at, let's
look at a tall building. Let's look at one World Trade Center in New York, because that's the,
everyone knows what it looks like, big tall building. That's what maybe 1800 feet tall,
even the Burj El Dubai, which is like what 20, some hundred feet tall, it's not that big.
So a super hornet to do what a split S is, which is I'm flying, I'm just going to roll the airplane
upside down. And then I'm going to do basically a C, the letter C, I'm going to go in the top and
out the bottom. So, and I'm just getting basically a vertical displacement of the airplane. So I'm
going from high to low. It's very, very tight. And it doesn't in about roughly about 2,500 feet.
Give or take a little. So you go, that is, that is a really tight vertical turn.
For example, the A6 in order to do that was about 9,000 feet. And we look at a building
that's 2,000 feet high and think that is tall. Right. All right. So in aviation sense, when
you're starting to do vertical displacement maneuvers going from 35,000 feet down to 20,000
feet in a matter of seconds and maneuvering the airplane, because the human brain thinks
we really are, we like to be flat. I see what you mean. We think 2D. So if I'm fighting,
how you really get an advantage when you're fighting another airplane is to work in the
vertical because most people will do like one move in the vertical and then they want to start
to flatten out because that's where we're comfortable. Yeah. So they're profound. Do
you still think in like stacks of 2D layers or no? Or do you, do you truly start to think in
that third dimension like the rich 3D world of like a fighting? Like do you start to actually be able
to really experience the 3D nature? You do because you have to project where you're going to be. So
you have to know the performance of the airplane knowing that, hey, if I do this maneuver that
I'm going to go, it's kind of like when I, when I talk about when we were chasing the Tic Tac.
So the Tic Tac's coming up and I'm at about, you know, and I've been doing this for
at the time 16 years. So I'm looking and I'm going, hey, I'm here, he's there on the other side of
the circle. I'm going to do a vertical displacement. I'm going to go like this. I'm going to cut
across the circle and I'm not going to him. I'm going out in front of him. I'm going over here
because I know that by the time I get through this maneuver, that's where he's going to be. And
I'm trying to, you know, basically join up on him. But I also had to look at it to go,
do I have enough altitude to do this? Because what I didn't, if we're here and I do this,
I'm going to end up over here and he's going to be above me. And then, you know, I have to get
that energy back to get up to him. And when you're doing a max performance, it's a trade. So you have
this, this is really important when you're, when you're fighting airplanes and you're really
max performing. So when you go to an air show and you see the air demo, he's literally playing
with it. He's got a finite amount of energy, right? He can add some with the motors and stuff,
but you're, what you're really doing is it's a trade off and you can trade off kinetic energy,
speed for altitude, which gives you potential energy. The other piece is, is I can trade some
of that kinetic energy for performance. Because I know if I do a nice easy turn, the airplane will
make it at what doesn't bleed energy. But I know if I do a real tight, that 2,500 foot split s,
that it's going to cost me energy. So if I enter the split s at 200 knots and I do it right,
I'm going to come out at the bottom at probably 200 knots. Although I lost 2,500 feet of potential
energy, I converted that to that to kinetic and that kinetic was transitioned and bled off the wings
in order for me to get that high performance turn. And you have to constantly evaluate where you're
at and it's your overall energy package. So you can have a guy that's behind you that looks like
he's going to kill you, but if this jet is at 400 knots and this jet is at 110 knots, this jet's
just going to pull away, drive around and kill him in about 30 seconds, right? It's, it's overall
energy package. And that's that you got to be constantly evaluating where you're at. And this
is that 80% solution. Can I afford to do this or not? Yes, no. And you have literally a split second
to make the decision. The most incredible dance of human decision making is just incredible.
I know a million people want me to talk about Tic Tac and I definitely will, but let me ask the
one last ridiculous subjective question. What's the greatest plane ever made in history?
You don't get to like. From pure speed, I would say SR 71. I think it's an engineering marvel
that was actually developed in the 50s by Kelly Johnson, you know, Skunkworks for what that was
able to do. And then when you get into history of it, you know how they actually built the CIA
actually made like six companies in order to buy the titanium from Russia to bring it back and
build an airplane out of titanium that we would fly over Russia. To me, that's, it's an incredible
engineering marvel. I think that like the X 15, you know, by the way, that's, that's sorry, sorry
to interrupt this, SR 71 still holds the, the speed record for any plane as far as I can
understand. Yeah, what's funny when you get into it is it's, remember, fast is relative.
When I say that, I mean, so if you're going 3000 miles an hour, 100 feet above the ground,
you're going 3000 miles an hour through, you know, that's how fast you're going.
When you get up to altitude, there's an indicated airspeed and there's a, you know,
your ground speed. So your indicated airspeed is really how fast the air is going past your airplane.
Well, the air is so thin up there, you may only be showing like 300 knots, but at 300 knots,
you're really doing 2500 miles an hour over the ground. So, you know, like, we would take the
airplanes up to 50,000 feet when we had to do full, the maintenance check flights on them.
So when you're doing 200, you know, and you know, some odd knots, you're, it's actually slow for
the airplane. It's, you know, you're getting, you know, it's kind of like, it's not, you know,
there's maneuvering speeds. You know that if I hit a certain speed and a super hornet that I have
the full capability of the airfoil. If I'm below that speed, I'm going to stall the airfoil before
I get to the maximum G. Okay. So when you look at something like that, you go, well, is it really
going fast? And when you look at an SR 71 that's flying upwards of, you know, 70 plus thousand
feet, the air is so thin, you know, just like the X 15, you can get to a much higher speed,
but the relative speed of the air going over you is actually relatively low.
So the stresses on the airframe are not like they would be if you were down low.
But because you're going fast to get enough air over your pedostatic system to show that
you're going 300 knots, you're, you're screaming. I mean, the fastest I ever got was I was with the,
well, soon to be vice admiral white. So we had taken a check flight and,
and I got it up to 1.78. I got a super hornet up to Mach 1.78. And it was,
and we were just right by Pebble Beach too. And then it...
What's that feel like? When you get that fast, it started, to me, it got a little bit weird
because you realize in your brain, and I did, that there's no out. If something happens, I
can't eject. The ejection would kill me. Isn't that kind of liberating in a way?
Or maybe not. You always want to push the limit. You know, it's like, how fast, I could have got
going faster. It was, it was literally still accelerating when I stopped, but I had, it was
fuel limited and space limited because I, you know, I'm off the coast of California,
Big Sur, and I'm going and I can see Pebble Beach out in the distance, you know, the whole Monterey
Peninsula. And you're doing almost 18 miles a minute. I mean, you're screaming. I mean,
that's, and then you have to turn, well, the airplane didn't have anything on it. It was
a slipped off super hornet. So it was basically just the airplane, no pylons, no pods, no nothing.
And then we had to get it turned around because we got to go to the exit point for the area.
And I'm trying to get it down below to subsonic. And there's a bunch of things that are disabled,
like the speed brakes that normally we pop out when you're going that fast. They don't,
because the super hornet really doesn't have speed brakes. It deforms the flight controls.
They don't function. So you really, you're trying to maneuver. And when you're going that fast,
you can't turn because a 7G turn at 1.5 Mach is a pretty big turn. So it's just, it's crazy.
It's incredible that a human can do this. And a human can engineer that, the system,
which allows another human to control that system. It's, to me, it's, I think it's just,
it's, it's one, it's a great experience. Was it sad to see the SR71 go? I think it was during
your career. I mean, do you guys romanticize the different planes? We would see it flying when I
was flying Hornets because we, West Coast flies in, it's called R2508, which is, covers the
Navy China Lake area and Edwards. It's a huge area. It's, it's actually, I think the, we had a guy
from Switzerland come out because they were, they had Hornets and he's like, this is bigger in our
whole country because it's a pretty big area in California that you fly. But you would see the
SR71s, they had a loop because NASA was flying them out of Palmdale and they would take off and
they'd go up towards Washington state and Montana and they do a loop. And so you'd see them coming
back down. They descend out of, you know, above 60,000. You'd see them, you'd, they get contrails,
you know, the white lines behind airplanes. They'd come down and hit the tanker and then they'd go
back up. So it was cool to be able to see them in my lifetime flying. But, you know, I think with
money, age, the advent of satellites, you know, because they're everywhere now. I mean,
you've got commercial companies putting satellites up. How much of that need was really there?
Because you got to remember when those things started in the 50s, Sputnik wasn't flying around.
You know, it was, it was the U2 and the SR71 that were out there doing that work.
So at the time it was needed, it was at the, if you think about it really, it was an incredible
feat of aviation for that time. I mean, literally we have yet to pass that. And you also asked,
well, is there a need to pass that? I go, I don't know, we got stuff in space. So
do we need to make an airplane that goes that fast? I think the next one is you get into the
hypersonics where you don't have to put a person in, it does all kinds of crazy stuff.
You know, the work with automation, all that kind of stuff. Yeah.
So one of the reasons I wanted to talk to you is you happen to be one of, at least in my view,
one of the most credible witnesses in history of somebody who's witnessed a UFO, literally,
an identified flying object. And not only witnessed, but got to, how do you put it like
chase it essentially? Chase it. Chase it. So let me just lay out, I think it's easier than you
telling the story, maybe me and my dumb simpleton ways trying to explain the stories I understand
it. And then maybe you can correct me. So on November 10th, 2004, the USS Princeton,
which is one of the carriers. That's a cruiser. It's a cruiser. So you can't land on a.
No, helicopter has a helicopter pad on the back. Got you. So it has weapons on it. Okay,
got you. It shoots the missiles up, but it has a nice radar just incredible spy one system,
phased array, four panels. So it looks in quadrants. Perfect. So they started noticing
on November 10th that there is a few objects flying around at 28,000 feet with speed of,
what I guess is considered a low speed of 120 miles an hour. I don't know what that's in knots,
but on the coast of California. So, and they kept detecting these objects for just about a week.
Then comes in like your part of the story, which is on November 14th,
from the, I guess it's from the USS Nimitz. You flew and witnessed a 40 foot long white
tic tac shaped object with no wings, flying in ways you've never thought possible.
And in some interview somewhere, you said, I think it was not from this world. So there's
a mysterious aspect to this object, to this entire situation. There's videos involved, the
video of a flare forward looking infrared receiver, as also the visible lights, you can switch
as a TV mode. So that gives you visible light and then as an IR mode. And chat Underwood recorded
that video. So, and those are the videos that were released by the Pentagon later, one of the
three videos, the two other videos go fast and gimbal were recorded in 2000, something 14 or
15 on the east coast of the United States. They had different kinds of objects, but they're weird
in the same kind of way in terms of at least the videos and the experiences that people have described
or similar in the degree of weirdness. But the differences is actually on the east coast of
2014 case, very few people have spoken about it. And even in your situation, very few people have
spoken about it. So there's a mystery to it. But it's in some sense, this is a quite simple story
without much resolution to the mystery. And it's fascinating. And there's a lot of opinions,
there's division of opinions, because it's a mysterious, I mean, it's truly is a UFO in
the sense that you AP, what is it, I unidentified aerial phenomena. So can you maybe correct me
on any of the things that got wrong, elaborate on some key things and describe that experience in
general? So here's what I know. So yeah, we went out on our mission to go train. And they canceled
the mission. And they sent us on, there's all kinds of rumors out here. There's all kinds of,
after this has come out. So originally, it was the four of us. There's two jets, two people in each
jet, their F18Fs. Okay. There is no video from our event. It was all four sets of eyeballs staring
at this thing. And then when we came back and told it, when Chad and his pilot took off,
that's when Chad got the video of it. And we're like, that's it. That's exactly, that's it.
So when you say eyeballs, you mean literally your eyes are seeing a thing.
Yeah. So as we're flying out, we get, we get vectored, they come up and tell us,
hey, we're going to cancel training. This is a USS Princeton. So this is the Seages cruiser.
So we're talking to one controller who is like, Hey, sir, first you ask what ordinance we have
on board. And I laugh because we don't carry live ordinance and training typically, because
bad shit stuff happens. Usually someone forgets to put a switch on and then the missile comes off
and hits a good airplane and it's not good. So we had what's called a catam 9, which is really
just a blue two with the aim night seeker on the front of it, which is an IR missile.
So there's only two ways to get it off. You can beat it off of the sledgehammer,
you can take this thing and you put a wrench in it and unlocks the lugs and pulls the lugs back
in that holding on when it really fires the impulse from the engine actually throws the lugs
forward and breaks that release and it comes off down the rail. That's how it works. So they said,
Hey, well, we have real world tasking. So as we're going out, my wingman, the other pilot,
she maneuvers the airplane to the left hand side of me. So she's kind of stepped up like this.
And I'll use your mic box to start. So as we're going out, their calling ranges are called bra calls,
bearing range and altitude. And they're telling us, Hey, it's at 40 miles or 50 miles and 40 miles
and 30 miles. So they're saying, Hey, two, seven, zero, 30, 20,000. That's all they say. So we got
our radars and we had to, we had to mechanically scan radars at the time, APG 73. Good piece of
gear, APG 79 new ones way better. But anyway, and I apologize if I interrupt the story. Hopefully
it's useful. But they're telling you a location of a thing that you should look at. Yep. They're
telling us they have a contact on their radar. They don't know what it is. They just have a blip.
They have a little blip. Well, they've been watching these things. And what he told me is
they had been looking at these things as we're driving. I said, sir, we've been tracking these
things for about two weeks. That's we had been at sea for two weeks. Because this is the first time
we've had planes airborne. We want you to go see what these are.
Gotcha. So they kind of interrupt the mission to say, check it out.
That's exactly it. So we start driving out there. And as we get down to, he's going, you know,
20 miles, 15 miles, 10 miles. And then you get to a point where they call merge plot,
which means we are inside of the resolution cell of the radar, because radars don't see everything.
So they have a range and they have an azimuth resolution, right? So, and it's basically think
of a little cube. So they can, and the whole sky is made of all these little cubes. And they're
looking. So if you're inside a cube with something and you're both inside the same little cube,
then the radar can only see one thing. Does that make sense? So they call merge plot. Well,
when we say merge plot to us, it means he's right around something's around you, get your head out.
So we're not looking at radar scopes anymore and the wizards, the wizards can look, but everyone,
it's heads out. When they say merge plot, you're done looking at your displays inside,
you're doing this and you're trying to find it. So as we look out to the right and you look high
and low, because he could be anywhere from the surface all the way up. Now, keep in mind, the
ship is like probably 60 miles away. So it can't see the surface and you can do your standard
radar horizon calculation and go, hey, it's the thing is 40 feet off the water, the panel.
Can he really see, you know, there are radars that can see around the curve, but let's just say that
it can't at this time. So you go, is it, you know, where is it at? So as we're looking around,
we see, you know, this is a, it's a clear day. There's no clouds and there's no white caps.
It's just a calm, it's actually a perfect day. If you owned a sailboat, it was that five to 10
knots of wind and you just want to kind of go out there and you're not going to get beat up and
have white water come out. It was the perfect day to own a sailboat.
How many miles out do you see like seven, like you see just, it's a clear day.
That's 50. It's unrestricted visibility. You can see literally all the way to the horizon. It's
just clear. It's nothing. And we're basically off the coast. If you look at a map and you go
San Diego and then inside of Mexico, we're kind of in between that. And we're probably about, by
the time this all hits, we're priced, I don't know, 80, 100, I don't know, but somewhere out,
it's pretty far off the coast. Perfect visibility.
But from 20,000 feet, you'd be amazed. You can do the calculation. You can see stuff,
you know, you'll see land 50 miles away. You can see, you know, and when you're looking at
a continent, it's really easy to see you're not looking at an island. I mean, you're looking
at Mexico. And you can see on the white caps in the water, if there is any.
Oh yeah, they're easy. Yeah. For us, we look at it because we know if it's natural wind or,
so if it's a really white cap windy day, then the ship's just kind of barely be moving when
we land on it. It makes it actually easier. If the ship has to move or it's got a big weight,
because it has to make its own wind when we land, which is the day that it was this day,
you go, oh, okay. And it creates what's called, we call it the verbal, but when the air flows
across the flight deck, it drops behind the ship, you know? And then it kicks back up.
So when you're coming board the land, it's going to make you go up a little bit and then you're
going to fall and you got to anticipate that to stand glidesome. So we're pretty conscious of
what's going on out there with the waves and the wind. So there's no waves, there's no wind,
there's no white caps, and we look down and we see white water. So if you put a piece of land,
a sea mount below the surface, like, you know, even 20 feet below the surface that's big enough,
as the waves come in, you know, waves have height and length. When they come in, that's what happens
on the shore. When a wave comes in, it hits and then it starts to collapse and it pushes the wave
height up because it can't go anymore and then it breaks over the top. And that's where you get the
white. So what happens is at sea, when you get a sea mount, you'll see stuff come in, the wave
will crash and you'll get white water. You can go out when it's high tide and any one of the coast,
you can go out here off of Boston and go, hey, at low tide, I can see those rocks. And at high
tide, I can't see the rocks are covered, but there'll be white water around those rocks. You'll
be able to tell there's something underneath the surface. Does that make sense? Yep. So that's
what it was. We see, we don't see an object because there's all kinds of, oh, they saw this,
they saw another craft below the way. We didn't see anything below the water. We just saw white
water. But the white water, and I like to shape it, you can say it was a cross. I say it's about
the size of a 737. So it looks like if you took a 737, put it about 15, 20 feet below the water,
so the wave is breaking over the top and you're going to get white water where the plane is at,
you'd see this kind of shape. So it looks like a cross. So as we're looking down off the right
side, the back seater in the airplane, Jim, says, this is that talking in partials again,
he says, hey, Skipper, do you, and that's about what he gets out of his mouth. And I go, what the
hell is that? Do you see that essentially is what he's saying? So we see the white water,
and that's what draws our eyes down there. Otherwise, we'd have never seen it. So we see
this white water. I would have loved to see the look on your face when you see that.
And then we see this little white tic tac because we're about 20,000 feet above it,
and it's doing, it's going basically north, south, and then east, west, north, and it's abrupt. It's
very abrupt. So it's not like a helicopter. If a helicopter's going sideways and it goes
once, it's going sideways, left and right, what it'll do is it'll go, it's got a speed,
it slows down because there's inertia and it stops and then it goes back the other way.
This thing's not. It's like left, right, left, right with no...
So moving in ways that doesn't, doesn't feel intuitive to you at all of the things you've
seen in the past. So as a pilot, the first thing you think is it's a helicopter, right?
So you go, oh, what is it? Because when we see it, it's moving. We're like, oh, helicopter.
So the first thing you look forward to see if it's a helicopter when they're doing that,
because usually when they get down there towards that 50 feet, you'll get rotor wash.
You see it in the movies when the helicopter's by the water, it kicks, the water comes up the
sides because the downdraft, you know, like a thunderstorm will do that, it pushes the
air down and then it has to come up the sides. So you see it and you go, well, there's no,
there's no rotor wash. What is that thing? So by this time we're driving around. So as we're,
if we were at the six o clock, we're driving around towards that nine o clock position and
we're just watching this thing. And it's just, it's still pointed north south and it's going
left, right. And it's kind of moving around the object. And if it had, if I had to say it
biased itself, it was biased towards the bottom half. So if you've got the east west and then
the north south kind of across, it's hanging out on the southern thing that's hanging out.
It's just kind of moving around up down left and it's crossing over it. It's going up. It's just
kind of, so now we're like, what the hell is that? So then I go, hey, I'm going to go check it out.
And the other pilot says, I'm going to stay up here. And I said, yeah, stay up high. Cause now
we get, we get a different perspective. So she's up here and I'm down here as I'm descending.
She can watch cause right now all I'm watching is the tic tac. She can watch me and the tic tac.
So she gets a God's eye view of everything that's going on, which is really important.
You can hear people say it's high cover, whatever. She's watching me, which is,
it's perfect as the story goes on. Cause it gives us two perspectives, you know,
of a perspective that's about 8,000 feet above us when that thing disappears. And they don't,
you know, cause if it's just like, oh, I lost it. And they go, no, it's over to the right.
We can still see it. We all lost it at the same time. So as we come down, we get to about 12
o clock and I'm descending and it's an easy descent. I'm doing about 300 knots, which is a
really good airspeed for the airplane for maneuvering. Cause I have, I have everything
available to me at that speed. So I'm coming down and as I get to 12 o clock as the tic
tics do this, it literally, it's like, it's aware of us and it just goes and it kind of points
out towards the West and starts coming up. So now it's obviously knows that we're there,
whatever this thing is, it knows that we're there. So as we drive around, it's coming up and I'm
just coming down and we're just, I'm just watching it. Now you gotta remember this whole thing is
like, this is like five minutes. This is not like a, we saw it and it was gone or, oh, I saw
lights in the sky and they were gone. We watched this thing on a crystal clear day with four
trained observers. Watch this thing fly around. So we're like, okay. So I get over to the eight o
clock position and I'm a little, I'm a couple thousand feet above it and it's about, so I'm
probably at about 15 K. I think it is. I think that's my story is about 15. It's just estimating.
So you can see it's really easy descent because. So what's 15 K 15,000 feet. I thought it was 8,000.
The other plane ends up about, so they're still at about 20,000 feet. So they're
driving around. And I'm descending, they're staying up there. So I'm kind of doing this as
they drive around. Okay. So I'm looking at this thing and it's about the two o clock position.
We're about the eight o clock position and I'm like, oh, I've got, I've got enough altitudes.
I'm going to, I'm going to cut across the circle. I tell the guy in my back seat,
dude, I'm going to, I'm going to do this. He's like, go for it, skip because I was a skipper.
So I cut across the bottom. So I'm kind of almost coming out co altitude as this thing's
coming out. I'm going to meet it and I'm driving and I get to pry. It's, I'm probably about a half
mile away, which you think, well, a half mile is pretty far. Half mile in aviation isn't,
it's nothing. That's, I mean, you can tell there's a pilot in an airplane. You can see all kinds of
stuff at a half mile. You can see pretty good detail. So I'm like, right there and it's coming
across my nose. So now I'm basically pointing back towards East. So I'm cutting across because
I'm going to the three o clock position. It's at two o clock and I'm going to meet it at three o
clock. So as I do this, it goes, it just accelerates and disappears. So it's, this happens at
around, estimating about 12,000 feet. So they're at 20. So they've got about 8,000 foot of altitude
above us when this happens. And it just, is it crosses our nose? It just, it accelerates in
literally in less than, you know, probably less than a half second. It's just goes, and it's gone.
And so we're like, and I had the first thing is, dude, do you guys see it? The other plane's like,
it's gone. We don't, we have no idea where it's at. So we kind of spin around real quick. I go,
let's see what's down here. And I turn around, we're looking for the white water and we can't,
the white water's gone. There's nothing. It's literally all blue. So now you go. And I remember
telling the guy in my back seat, I go, dude, I'm, I don't know about you, but I'm pretty weirded
out because this is, I mean, you know, I had, at the time, like 30 some hundred hours of flying,
I'd been doing it for 18 years. It's nothing like anything you've seen. No, no. So as we turn, we go,
well, let's just go back, you know, because now I got to put on my real hat, which we have to train
because we're getting ready to deploy to, you know, overseas. So we got to get our training done. So
that's my mindset, especially as a CO, because I got to get, I get it training out of the flight
time because I'm responsible to do that. So, hey, let's go back. And the guy who's going to be the
bad guys is the CO, the Marine Squadron. And so Cheeks is at the other, he's listening to all this
happen, you know, because he's just like, because he, they, when he first went out, they were going
to do him, but the little Hornets, the legacy Hornets, the F18Cs don't have as much gas as the
Super Hornets. So he had launched first and they were going to do him. And then when they knew we
were off the deck, they just told him, hey, go to your cap point down south. And we're going to send,
we'll pass this off to the Super Hornets. What's the cap point? That's where we hold. So it's called
a combat air patrol point. So we're just going to hold at one end. He's going to hold at the other end.
It's kind of like, hey, you guys are going to, it's a football field. We're going to sit on one
goal line. He's going to sit on the other goal line. And when they say go, we're going to run at
each other and try and do something in the middle of the field and then go back to our set reset
points. Okay. So you're talking to him. He's listening to the all. He's just listening. We
don't talk to him at all. He's just listening. He just dials up because they know that we all
know the frequencies. So he's listening to what's going on because he's like, because they canceled
training. So what else is he going to do? He's just going to hang out there and do circles while
he's waiting for him and his wingman. So they just, they're listening to all this go on.
And then at this point, you move on. Yeah, we come back up to train. We go back as we're flying back,
the controller, because we're talking to the kid on the Princeton, they're called OSs,
they're operation specialists. They're the ones that run the radars. And we're talking to him
and he's like, Hey, sir, you're not going to believe this, but that thing is at your cap.
It showed back up and just popped up. This is like 60 miles away. It just reappears. We're like,
Oh, okay. So we got the radars out. We're looking for it. We get out there. We never see it. We
never see it again. We do what we need to do. We come back to the ship. Of course, now we're like,
Oh, this is going to be, you know, I told him, I told him, I go, dude, you know, we're going to catch
we're going to catch shit for this. When we get back to the ship, words going to get out and we're
just going to catch maximum shit. And we did. And it's kind of that joking. You know, so the
ship plays movies. We have movies on the boat and they do 12 hours of movies. So they repeat
because there's a day check and a night check. So the same movies in the morning and night plays.
So you never get to ever get to watch a whole movie on the boat, which drives my wife crazy
because I'll watch stuff on TV that way too. I'll be like, Oh, here I've seen this and I'll jump
into a movie in the middle and then I'll pick it up later and I'll see the beginning and I'll put
it all together because that's how we have to do it because we're so busy. Well, the movies became
and I was met in black aliens, Independence Day. Definitely going to catch some shit.
Oh, we did. But let me just ask some dumb questions. So just taking because it's
whatever, whatever the heck you saw, whatever the heck happened, it's, you know, one of the most
fascinating things, events in recent history. So whatever it was, it's interesting to talk about
at different kinds of angles. There's no good answers, but it's interesting to ask some dumb
questions here. So first of all, you mentioned, see, you saw it at some point, X, Y, and then
somebody in the Princeton said, you're not going to believe this, sir. It's at your cap point.
Now that's a different place. How the heck did it know what your cap point is?
That's a good question. That's the one of you, no one, you know, we don't tell it. We don't
broadcast it. We have a waypoint in the system. But I don't know, maybe it knew where we were
going because we use the same one day after day after day. But it obviously knew. But you never
saw it there. Never saw it there. Chad, when he took off, when he got the video, we landed,
we told them, hey, look, we just, we just chased this thing. They're like, what? I go,
chased it. And they're like, well, I go, dude, and I go, and I told him, I said, dude, get video.
And he goes, so, and that's how he is. He's like, oh, I'm going to go. And he was, he was determined
that he was going to find this thing. So when you look at his video, and this is the stuff that
isn't out that they don't see because not all the, all you see is the FLIR tape. That's the
targeting pod, the forward looking infrared receiver. I'll probably overlay the video.
When he goes out, it's, you know, what he's looking at on his displays is he has basically
two radar displays up. He has azimuth and range on the right one, and he has azimuth and elevation
on the left one. So this is called the ASL display. And this is called, this is basically the PPI,
which is the, you're at the bottom of it. You're at the bottom of the square. It's really taken
this, it's taken a cone because a radar really looks left and right from a point and it squares
it out. So the entire bottom of the scope that we look at is us because they do this, they square
it off. So, so he goes out. And when he first sees it, he gets a radar return on it because
when he's not trying to lock it, so the radar's just throwing energy out and getting it, you know,
it's a Doppler radar. So when it's in search mode, that's all it's doing. It's going,
hell, I can see you. I can see you. And it's looking for return. So he gets a return. So he
wants to see what it is because all you get is a little green square unless it builds a track
file on it. But a little green square is just sitting there. It's not moving because it's,
it's sitting in one spot in space. He locks it up when he goes to lock it up. Now he's putting
a bunch of energy on it. But he's telling the radar, stare down that line of sight and whatever's
there, I want you to grab it and build a track file on it, which will tell us how high it is,
how fast it is and the direction that it's going. Okay. The radar smart enough that when the signal
comes back, if it's been messed with, it will tell you, it'll give you indications that I'm being jammed.
So that's all it is. As you send the signal out, something, it manipulates the signal either in
range and velocity or whatever, and it sends it back. And the radar was smart enough to go,
that is not a return that I'm expecting. Something's messing with me. I'm being jammed.
And it shows you and it puts strobes up, it gives these lines on the radar and it does some
stuff. So you can, well, it does, it goes full into it. It's being jammed at about every mode
you can possibly see because everything comes up and the, this aspect gets along. It's all kinds
of, I don't want to get into details, but you can tell it's being jammed. So as you said on
Rogan, by the way, that jamming is an active war. Active jamming isn't, when you actively jam
another platform, yes, it's technically an active war. Feels like you should be freaking out at this
point. I mean, so, well, he does it. And then in the back seat, so they don't have a stick and throttle,
they have what their sidestick controller, so they can control all the sensors and they can
just toggle around and do stuff. So he can, he has the ability to just move one switch real
quick and it will go from that azimuth elevation on the radar to the targeting pod. Well, as soon
as he commanded the radar to look at that target, the targeting pod goes, oh, what's over there?
And it'll stare because it goes down the line of sight because all the systems are hooked together.
You can decouple them, but they're going to automatically couple up. So when he castles over,
he, it's a switch, it looks like a castle switch was a castle. So when he moves that thing to the
left and he swaps the displays out and he says, instead of looking at the radar, I want to look
at the targeting pod. He sees it on the targeting pod because the targeting pod is already looking
there. And now he's on a passive track because he's not literally sending any energy out. He's
just receiving IR energy from the tic tac. And then the system itself will track the pixels
and the contrast differences. It depends on what mode you're in. So it says, oh,
and that's what those little bars you see in the video where the bars come up left and right.
I was doing some vision based tracking. That's exactly what it is. So, and then he goes through
changes, zooms, changes the mode. He goes through all the modes. So there's a narrow,
medium and wide. So wide is far away, medium and then narrow. And then there's the TV mode.
And he goes from IR mode to the TV mode. The cool thing with the TV mode is narrow IR mode
is only medium TV mode. So you can actually get closer with narrow TV mode. It's got a
better zoom capability when you go into TV mode. So he goes through all those things.
And that's when you see it going from a black background to a white background.
Trying to figure out what the heck is this? Well, yeah. And he wants to get as much data
as he can on it based on the different modes instead of just staring at it going. What is that
thing? So the video has been out. It actually was on YouTube for years before the government
released it. It was leaked 2007. No, I got the guy that was in my backseat sent me an email
and I had retired. So this is about, no, because I was working, I was working down in San Diego.
So this is about 2008, early 2009. He sends me a link to Strangeland.com,
which is not suitable for work. Oh, yeah, it's top notch. And he says, hey, I can remember the
email. Hey, Skip, does this look familiar? And I look at, I'm like, how the hell did that get
on Strangeland.com? So next thing you know, it ends up on YouTube, which was cool because you
can send a YouTube link to someone. You don't send Strangeland.com to someone because you don't
know what you're going to get. It's like Googling kittens. So it ends up there somehow. So it gets
on YouTube, which was cool because I would go out with my friends and we'd be drinking and they
go, dude, what's the coolest thing you ever saw flying? It's kind of like you were asking what
it's like. And I go, oh, dude, I chased a UFO and they're like, get out. And I'm like, no,
serious. So this is literally how it happened. So I was sitting with my friend, Matt. So Matt
and I did our, he was the guy in my right seat of the A6 when I did my very first night trap,
right? And we were friends to this day, right? Because when you do stuff like people like that,
you know, you had to have faith in him. He had to have faith in me. You know,
they become like your brother. And these are guys that literally, you know, I don't talk to
them on a regular basis like Chris who works at Apple. If Chris called me up tomorrow and said,
dude, I need help. I need this. I'd be like, all right, let's figure this out and let's do it
because they're like family. You do it. And most Navy guys, we don't, we don't send letters to
each other weekly. You know, I have friends that could, I haven't talked to in 10 years that they
showed up on my door, you know, pop a bottle of wine, grab a beer, shoot the shit, take about
first 10 minutes to catch up. And then it's, it's like old times and it's, it's amazing how fast
it's happened. So incredible. So I'm out to dinner with Matt. And I'm telling him this story and
he's like, get out of here. So he goes back and he tells our friend Paco. Paco has fightersweep.com.
It's a blog site. So Paco's obsessed. Like he is way into UFOs. So Paco calls me up. He says,
dude, I was talking to Maddie. That's what we call him. He goes, I was talking to Maddie.
He goes, dude, you got to tell me this story. So I'm like, all right, so I spend a chunk of time.
And so he calls me one day and I'm like, I get a voicemail. Hey, give me a call. So I call him up
and he answers the phone, but I can hear people in the background and I go, hey,
dude, what's going on? He goes, hang on, hang on. I got to put you on speakerphone. I go,
what are you putting me on speakerphone? He goes, you got to tell the story. I'm having a dinner party.
You got to tell the story. So he's literally having a dinner party with his cell phone in
the middle of the table as I tell a tic tac story. So he calls me up again. He says, hey,
I got this blog and he just writes about fighter stuff like he wrote about that we call him the
shit hot break. That's a guy that when you land on a carrier comes and turns and gets ready to land
really fast like breaks it off right at the back of the ship. And one of the guys when we were
junior officers on the USS Ranger, one of the apartment heads, the other squadron is a guy,
Nasty. And Nasty was notorious for coming in in a Tomcat and cranking off the shit hot break.
Right. So he literally wrote a thing about the shit hot break with Nasty and there's another guy
or MAV was our, one of our landing signals officers for the air wing. It's just, it's a good
article on how this was and how, you know, it kind of forms you in naval aviation. It's kind of
being part of the club. So he's like, I got to write about this thing. I'm like, what do you
guys, I got to write about it. I go, all right. I go, because at first I would say no. I'm like,
dude, I don't want this out. They're just. You haven't really before then talked about it much.
My wife didn't even really know the whole story. Why? Just as a comment, is it just because you
caught some? No. It was just, I'll tell you what, three days we had the incident for about two days.
They played the goofy movies. There's a comic on the back of the air wing schedule that they would
put. It was like, first one was a far side and the second one was me and the guy in my back seat
and it was men in black, but it had our names, you know, protecting, protecting the Nimitz
battle group type stuff. It's just funny shit like that. So to me, it wasn't that big of a deal.
It was like, okay, that's weird. We're never going to know what it was. I want to get out
because this is important because there's all kinds of rumors. There's a group of folks that
no one ever came out in suits to talk to us. Nobody looking like me. No. Came out on a.
No. No one came out on a helicopter. No one came out on an airplane. You know, you get,
oh, I was told to turn over this classified. What's funny is all the COs and several of them are
still in the Navy. There's one that is a, I think he just finished up. He was a captain of an aircraft
carrier, you know, so he'll end up making Admiral and all that stuff. Those guys are all my friends.
I talk to them daily. Just to clarify, so just for people who don't know, there's a story
that both on the Nimitz and the Princeton folks in a helicopter landed, they showed up, they took
the data, quote, unquote, so all the sort of recordings associated with this incident,
and they took it and presumably deleted it. There's a kind of story to that. And then
from what I've seen, you said that you believe just like we were talking about offline,
the jokes spread faster than or just rumors spread faster than anything on these ships
that it might have been a joke that started and. Well, they did. So here's the joke. Yeah.
So they had come down, right? We had the tapes and they were Chad's tapes. So we use those tapes
over and over again. You know, they're consumable. But remember, I have a budget as a squadron,
so I have a budget. So I have to buy those tapes. I have to, all that stuff that we use,
I'm accountable for. And the tapes are actually classified secret because of the data that's
on them. So we had the tapes. So the intelligence guys, the intel officers came down from what's
called Civic, CVIC, which is Carrier Intel Center, came down and said, hey, we need the tapes. These
guys are going to come and get them. So we're like, oh, whatever. So we hand them the tapes.
And then someone, because I have, you know, you know, people shortly after they came and got the
tapes, someone came to me and said, you know, they're, they're messing with you. They're playing a
joke. So I said, oh, let's see how well that goes because, you know, I'm a CEO and they're not.
And so I went down to Civic and it was a, I think he was a Lieutenant or Lieutenant JG. So he's
way junior to me. And I said, hey, I want my tapes back and that he looks at me and I go,
I know you guys are pulling my leg. I know you, there's no one came out and I go, and you have
about 30 seconds to get me my tapes before I start tearing this place apart. That's literally what I
told him. And I said, and if your boss has an issue, he can come and see me because it's not
going to go well. I said, because it's bullshit and I need those tapes. Then he literally walked
right over to a filing cabinet and opened it up. They weren't to say if he opened up a filing
cabinet and pulled him out and handed him to me. I said, and I basically said a few things to him,
like, don't ever fuck with me again. And I left. I had the tapes. So this, no one came out. There's
no flying going on when all this is happening. And I took the tapes back and then I copied the tapes.
So I took two brand new eight mil tapes and I copied the sections that I want. So there's a
rumor too that, oh, the original FLIR video is 10 minutes long and there's some, one of these
pediosters is saying, I saw it. That's total crap. The original video is about a minute, 30 seconds
long. What you see on the release video is the entire video. So you have mentioned, I apologize
if I say stupid things, please correct me, but you have mentioned that, like on Rogan, I think,
that you watched it on, you know, on a bigger screen. It felt like it was higher definition.
So let me ask the question, is there a higher definition version do you think of the FLIR
video that would give us more pixels and more information, presumably because of the
I would doubt it because I don't know where the stuff that the government released. I don't
know where they got. Okay. So the stuff that was on Strangeland and YouTube, you know, someone
pulled off of a secret. It looks like a rack. You know, there's tape machines in there and it gets
converted to digital and stored on a hard drive and they pulled it off that hard drive and they
put it on YouTube. No, it's just like, you know, anytime even a digital media, the more you copy
digital media, there's some quality that gets it degrades. So this, you don't know how many times
this has been copied. So we were looking at the videos I've seen are right off the original.
They're high eight tapes. It's basically pulled off the back of the display. So it's not filmed
with cameras. It's literally a digital feed that's pulled off the back and put onto a high eight tape.
That's how the recorders work. Now it's actually digital to digital. It's not even on tapes anymore.
They said it's a digital recording system, but we were still in that process of slowing up because
originally we had little cameras here that shine. So if the light hit, it would wash out the displays.
So this is, it's a pretty good feed. When you put it on, so we're, instead of looking at it
on your tiny little computer monitor or whatever, I'm looking at it on a like a 19 inch because
it was still normal TVs back there. We had just put flat screens in the ready room that I had bought
so we could watch movies. So because a nice huge 19 inch screen is maybe 20. It was nice.
Wow, that's huge. Gigantic. I can get for like 50 bucks and get like 60 inches.
This is 2005. So you look at this big thing and you could see, so when you get to the TV mode,
when I say there's little things coming out of the bottom of it, you could see those.
It was very clear. But in terms of the actual
visual on the tic tac, was it, did you get much more information from the higher, from the clear
little things out of the bottom? We didn't see the bottom of information. So when you see it,
because he's coming almost co altitude with it, you can see the bottom of it. It looks like little,
you know, like if you look at a session, there's little antennas hanging out of the bottom,
kind of like that. There's two little things out of the bottom. There's nothing on the top.
There was no plume, no IR, no, no visible propulsions, even heat signature,
you know, it's all that stuff. And then the other thing that people didn't see is they didn't see
the radar display, which that really raises a classification love, especially to see what
the radar does when it's being jammed. You know, and I matter of fact, when they did the unofficial
official investigation in about 2000, and let me think about 2009, I had gotten a call on
my cell phone from a guy who government employee and said, Hey, he told me who he was, he's still
in the government. I'm friends with him. And he said, Hey, we're going to investigate your tic
tac thing. This is literally five years later. Yeah, five years later. And I said, Okay, whatever.
And he did a pretty good job. I caught the unofficial official report because
it was really never official. It wasn't. But I'll give you the history of why I say that and why
it never came out in FOIA requests. So he does the report, he sent me the report. And all he said
is, Hey, I'm going to send you this report, please don't distribute this report. I said, Okay,
the report is now out because Harry Reid got it to George Knapp. And they were good enough to
redact it. There's a few versions of it unredacted. And I'm very protective of the other people that
were involved in this. So Jim has talked, but he's off the grid. He doesn't talk to anyone now.
The pilot of his airplane, she has come out on unidentified, but they don't release her name,
although people are starting to do it. And she's had weird shit happen around her house. She's got
kids. You know, so I'm very protective of her. And I've told people like Jeremy and George, if I
know that the names ever came from you, I will never talk to you again about this. And Jeremy's
been really good about it. And so is George. And then, but George, George knew the names were
because he had, he got the report from Senator Reid. And then the other crew. So the pilot of
the airplane that took the video that Chad was in, if you talk to that individual, they really
don't have the recollection, they were just out flying that day. And it wasn't a big deal.
So it's, it's you, you need to protect, because not everyone wants people knocking,
I don't want people knocking on my door. And, you know, and there's rumors all you talk to
everyone. I think you're about the 23rd person that I've talked to total. And that includes,
you know, the newspapers and stuff. And I've been selective because there's so much. I mean, if,
if I turned down like, I turned down Russian TV, I can give you her name when we're done here.
But she, she called, she not only called me, she called my wife, she called my daughter,
she called my son and she called my son in law because they're persistent. So I'm, I'm pretty
protect, I'm very particular. I mean, the reason I'm talking to you is because I knew we would
have a conversation that wasn't based just on the tic tac and the incident, but we could actually
talk about some of the science and some of the theoretical to get into, to get more people
involved to go, because I think there's, you know, and when you talk to, you know, Lou Elizondo or
Chris Mellon, you know, the group at TTSA, you know, the, that whole thing was, that's to the
stars Academy. That's the Tom DeLong group that got started. So, and you go, well, you know,
because I think Tom has caught a lot of crap for this, but he's actually, when you talk to him,
he's, he's, he's very smart. And I ask him, how'd you get into this? And he goes, oh,
when I was traveling around with Blink 182, he goes, you read a lot of books when you're laying
in a van as you're driving to your next gig before you make it big. And he goes, and he read, he
was reading books and he read one of them on UFOs. I'm trying to think the title, that's one of the
big ones that's out there, real popular. And so he started just, he started asking more and through
his fame with Blink 182 in the band, he got more and more connected. You know, if you talk to Chris
Mellon, who is an Undersecretary of Defense for Intelligence, and he's part of the Mellon, you
know, dynasty, you know, from Carnegie Mellon type, very, very smart. He knows, he, he, he definitely
knows how the government works because he worked there. And so when I went down to DC to talk to
people, he's one of the first people I'll go to. When I did Tucker Carlson about a month ago,
a month and a half ago, I asked, he texted me. I texted him, Tom, Lou, to go, hey,
because they were like, you got to do it. Because I turned, I had turned Tucker down a
couple of times before and his, his producer had called me and I'm like, all right, I'll do it.
Because those guys are like, you got to, you got to do this for us.
So from my perspective, just to give you some context. So to me, there seems to be some stigma.
So I come from the scientific community and I really appreciate you talking to me today.
And I think the people who listen to this include, you know, fellow faculty at MIT and major
universities. And it feels like there's some stigma to the subject from, from the scientific
community. A lot of people, especially when they hear your story are like, wow, this is really
interesting. But you don't even know, one, you're afraid to talk about it. And two, you don't know
what the next steps are. Like how can we seriously try to think about what you saw, how to think about
how we further look for things like it, how we develop systems and plans for how in the future
we can immediately collect a lot more data and try to react properly, you know, try to communicate,
try to interpret this in the best way possible from a scientific perspective. And I just would
love to remove stigma from this subject. Well, I think that's the first step. We have done in
this country an absolutely terrible job with these things. So you go, and I joke, you know, go back
to Roswell. So the first reports that came out of Roswell was we have this crash flying saucer.
That's literally what came out. And then magically the next day, it's a weather balloon and they're
showing your pieces of mylar. And you go, well, that doesn't look like what they showed us yesterday.
Then you get into Project Blue Book, you know, so there's that whole series about Project Blue
Book. But the bottom line of Project Blue Book is it really did two things. It investigated
sightings and it did everything it could to debunk and disprove to the point where it actually went
to discredit, you know, to make you look. So there's always been this, this, I don't know if you'd
call it an aura around it or a mystique about UFOs that if you're talking about them, they're nuts.
With ours, because I'm not a UFO guy. I'm not a junkie. If you ask me, do I believe
that there's life outside of Earth, I would say you probably have a better chance of winning
the Mega Ball Lottery than we're the only planet that has life on it in the universe.
It's just the odds are against it. If you're, if you do just do the math, you have to accept,
because if there only has to be one other planet that has life on it,
and then I win and you lose. And the more and more science has shown that there's habitable
planets out there, that yeah, everything we've learned so far, and we know very little, but
everything we've learned so far about the planets out there, exoplanets, Earth like planets,
it seems that it's very likely that there's life out there. Intelligent life is another topic,
but life. Well, we, we as humans, you know, and even more as Americans, we have this hubris about
us that says, we are it. And you go, not so much. Maybe we're not so intelligent.
Because we are, it's just how we learn. So, you know, our main mode of transportation and what
people figured out, you know, years ago was the internal combustion engine, which led us to jet
engines and solid rocket fuel. What if you're in another planet where you didn't, you figured out
the ability to create a gravity field or you used, you know, because electromagnetics are
becoming bigger and bigger and bigger, you know, catapults on ships were steam powered,
and the new Gerald Ford is electromagnetic. Roller coaster used to use a chain to get you
the top of the hill. Now you, they shoot you with electromagnetics and you're going. So,
there's a whole new realm of propulsion that, you know, sometimes it's our ability to develop
the technology to support theory. You know, we are just now proving, you know, recently
theories that Einstein had where people actually joked about them. And now we actually have the
technology to prove that gravity can bend light. You know, we have proven that. So, you look at
that way and you go, well, does that mean that, you know, 70 years ago, Einstein was wrong or
eight years ago, Einstein was wrong? Or do you go, we just didn't have the ability to look that deep
into space to actually find something that we could, to actually measure and, you know, and
I've seen this. And that's just a hundred years and the kind of things that can happen in a few
centuries. Look at what we've done in the last 20 years. Yeah, it's crazy. Let me direct, because
it's such an interesting topic from a career perspective, from a science perspective.
You're, I mean, you've spoke, you've been brave in, you know, telling your story, not some dramatic
thing, but just telling the things you've seen. Did it encounter, did it impact your career?
Is that why more people haven't come out? Like you've mentioned, Roswell, like, how,
what advice do you give to people, to the community, to me as a scientist, for ways to go
forward about this topic and still have a, you know, not to being put in a bin in society,
that he's a loon or she's a loon or that person? Mine is to get away from the little green men,
divorce the two little green men. And, you know, I've talked to Lou Elizondo about this,
you know, and the group that they're working with, which is incredible. I mean, they've got
Steve Justice, who used to run Skunk Works, where they built, you know, projects.
Now, Lou Elizondo, which you mentioned, was a program director.
He ran the ATIP program at the Pentagon. And ATIP was a program that was tasked with investigating
any kind of UFOs, UAPs. So what's funny is the unofficial official report that I joke about,
the guy who wrote the unofficial official report was actually an original member of ATIP.
And the original stuff that ATIP did was FOIA exempt. And people go, how do you know that?
I go, because I stood there with the memo in my hand that said these are,
it literally, I watched the DOD memo that said it and it was signed. So he was one. So that's
why the, that's why I caught the unofficial official report. It was never, it was never
releasable. Cause people go, well, I put in a FOIA request and I didn't get that. I go,
well, just cause you put in a FOIA request and get it. I go, because how much, how much time
do you think that guy's going to spend to get you the information that you requested if you can't
find it? I actually got called by the Navy. I had a commander and a Navy call me about,
right before the article came out in the New York Times. It was, this was starting to come back.
And she had called me cause there's been, there was a FOIA request for stuff about the Nimitz
incident. And I said, do you know of anything she called me? She goes, do you know of anything
else besides the, the situation reports that come off the ship? And you know, and you got to
remember when the situation report comes off the ship, that's like third hand. So we tell someone,
they tell someone, that person has to write it up. So there's all kinds of inaccuracies in it.
But then there's the unofficial official report that's actually pretty well written. There's
some errors in it, but it was, you know, I didn't help write it. I just did it. And he did a really
good job of researching it and figuring out who's who in the zoo and the players. So she called me
and said, is there anything out there? And I said, officially out there, she said, yes,
I said, I don't know of anything. I knew of the unofficial official report, which is that one.
But I'm not, you know, if you don't know about it, I'm not going to tell you because that's not
my job. And nor did I care. I mean, did in that whole situation, you mentioned Lou, I mean,
did you think about your impact to your career? Like just to get back to the question, do you
think others, other pilots, other thing, other people like in the Roosevelt are thinking about
this kind of thing? Why aren't they talking about this? Why are people afraid to talk about this?
Well, honestly, the military and the press, there's a distrust. I'll just tell you that right now.
We typically don't like talking to the press because if I talk to you, you know, especially
when I do even the TV shows, you know, because I've been on a couple of shows, when you look at it,
you know, they come to my house and they film me for two hours. And then what you see on the screen
is five minutes. Well, and the, and the other thing with the press, let me give you my perspective
from autonomous vehicles is the clipping happens. Yes. But also the incompetence. Let me just call
out journals. They're not thinking. I mean, so here's the thing. I've, I have a PhD and I've taken
painfully too many classes from like physics, math, and I also have a deep curiosity about the world.
I read a lot. That seems to be missing with journalism. So you're talking to a person who
is not going to push the story forward in an interesting way, not the story, but the actual
investigation of perhaps one of the most amazing things that humans have witnessed in history.
Like you, it might have been nothing. Who knows what you witnessed might have been from a sort of
debunking perspective, might have been some kind of trick of mind. If you and others have hallucinated
something, it could be some simple explanation, but possibly it was something not of this world.
And to not do justice to this story from a scientific perspective,
it seems at best negligence. And so yeah, that's true for journalists. That's true for other
scientists. It's just a human nature. Yeah. If we, if we can't, if we see something that we can't
explain, then sometimes if you just, eh, maybe it's just me and you let it go away and you
don't think about it, you know, maybe it'll just, you know, it's, it's, you ignore it.
The other side is the inquisitive mind that says, well, what was that? And I want to,
I want to dig more into it. You know, and if you, you, you look at it or you're going against the
norm, um, you can get ostracized, you know, and if you look at, you know, Einstein's the perfect
example. I mean, when he started coming up with some of his theories, some of the top physicists
in the world were like, dude, you're, you're a nut job. And he's, he's literally proving them,
but he didn't have, you know, he proved them in theory, but he didn't have the means to actually
do the experiment to prove his theory. There's a great book that I recommend people read called
Proving Einstein Right by Jim Gates that, uh, talks about like the hard work that people try to do
years after, uh, to try to experimentally validate the predictions that Einstein made with, uh,
with his theories. It's fascinating. But yes, at the time it's kind of crazy. What are you saying?
Yeah. If you look at it back at the time, don't we, we look at it now and go, well,
the guy was a walking genius and he was, but if you go back in time when he was doing it,
it was like, what are you talking about? You know, and, but one of the challenges is
your eye witness, one of the challenges is you're essentially an eye witness account.
Like we don't have good data. We have very limited data of, um, of the incident that you've
experienced. So let me kind of dig in. Let me just ask some questions of, um, maybe to see if
there's just to paint more and more of the picture. One, you kind of mentioned the tic tac shape.
Let's break apart two situations. One is the video. Let's look at the actual eye account,
the, the eye witness account that you saw with your own eyes. What's the, what can you say about
the shape of the thing? Is there interesting aspects outside of the tic tac? Like, is there any
appendages? Is there, um, some texture to it that no smooth white tic tac, you know, we don't,
you don't see, there's no, no wings, no visible propulsion, no windows, no probes that we could
see. We don't notice, like I said, we don't see the little things on the bottom of it until we
see the video in the TV mode when it zoomed in right before it's shortly, you kind of seem to
zoom in. You don't see it typically on the YouTube stuff that's out there. Um, but remember,
we're looking at the original tape. So there's not, there's basically no degradation.
But when you saw with your eyes, there's no kind of appendages.
No, none.
What about like somebody asked, a lot of people asked you questions. So, uh, I appreciate you
spending your time here. Let me ask some of them. Uh, did you, I mean, you chased it. So,
when you flew close to it, relatively speaking, was there, did you feel any wake, like any,
did you feel it in any way in terms of your interaction, like aerodynamically?
No, nothing, nothing. So, uh, another aspect of it, there's an interesting thing you've developed
to feel for, for objects in the air. Did you feel like it was surprised by your arrival or did it,
let me ask a few questions around it. So did you, did it feel like the thing was surprised?
Did it feel like it wanted to be seen almost to show off its capability?
Did, uh, and did, what did it feel like relative to if you were doing a, um, uh, an air fight
against, uh, sort of like a, I don't know, a foreign jet?
So one, I think it, I think it knew we were there when we showed up. It's just, it's me.
It's kind of like an animal. If you've ever been around deer in a field, you know, the deer will
look up and if it sees you and you're on the other side of the field, it'll actually go,
no threat and it'll start eating, you know, they don't put their tail up. As you move closer to
the deer, then it goes, oh, it's there and I'm going to react or I'm going to move. So as we
were up high and it's down doing whatever it was doing, um, you know, which I don't know,
someone asked, what do you think? I don't know, maybe it was communicating with something. I
joked on good morning America. Maybe it's like talking to the whales, kind of like Star Trek,
you know, and actually use that clip. It was kind of funny, but yeah, we're a little human
centric. We think like it would, it'd show up to talk to us, but maybe he's talking to the dolphins.
Yeah, whatever, you know, because it was hanging around that whitewater and I don't know if it
was, or something there was a seamount. We just didn't find it again. I don't know.
But once we started to descend and it actually reoriented its, its longitudinal axis and it
started mirroring us coming up and it was obviously where we were there and it was really
coming up just, you know, you figure I'm at 20 and it's coming up and it ends up getting up to 12,
12, where I cut across the circle. I think it was very aware that we were there because it
interacted. We call it a two circle fight when you're fighting another airplane. But, you know,
were we afraid? I don't think so. I mean, and to me, it was more curious.
You know, the curiosity overcomes any fear that you would have. And I always felt, to be honest,
if I was inside the airplane, especially as long as much time as I'd spent inside the airplane,
flying and doing stuff, I felt totally, it was like a safe zone. I mean, I felt totally comfortable
inside the airplane as most, you can't, if you're in the airplane and you feel scared,
it's not the job for you. You have to feel that because the airplane is part of you now.
You know, I am inside. I have the stick. I have the throttles. I've got my wisdom in the back
seat. He's running all the displays. We are a team. We're in the state of the art airplane,
you know, brand new. You feel pretty good. And then you get something that, you know,
can climb from the surface up and then accelerate like it did, like it was like no big deal.
You know, for an airplane, if you just put me from a standstill, let's just say slow flight,
just get me at 100 knots above the water. And for me to, you can't just start to climb. I'd
have to lower the nose. I'd have to accelerate. And then I'd have to start coming up and
this thing just like, just did it like it was like no big deal.
Yeah. You mentioned that like kind of your reaction to it was it like it's something
that you would love to fly almost. So this object, just the curiosity you experience is like,
like what it almost like, what the heck is that piece of technology and I want to fly it?
Like what made you feel like it's something that you could fly? Do you think it's something
that a human could fly? Like in terms of interpreting what you saw as a piece of technology,
because another perspective on it is it was not that the thing under the water was the key thing.
And what you were seeing is some kind of projection or something that like,
I don't think it was a projection. I think it was a real object.
It was an physical hard object that you could be fly.
Oh yeah. Yeah. I think all four of us will say the same thing. This was not because you go,
okay, let's just go on. It's a light projection. Well, if we were both sitting next to each
other, we were just looking at it from the exact same angle and all that. And I go, okay,
there's the in theory you could have that. But with an 8,000 foot altitude difference flying,
you know, and there, you know, she's probably not directly above me. She's kind of hanging out,
watching this whole thing happen. You know, you're getting two different perspectives from two
different altitudes over a clear blue. You know, if you've ever been at sea, and I don't mean like
coast, I mean, like when you get out at sea, the ocean is the bluest. It's incredible.
You know, you got a bright white object over a deep blue ocean. You got pretty high contrast.
And for this thing just to disappear, it's wasn't I'm telling you, I would, I mean, I know we
we all have the same recollection of what happened. You know, there's some details because it's so
long ago. But for the most part, we know what we saw. And we all came back and looked at each
other like, what the hell was that? What if I mean, do you think about the thing under the water?
That's not often talked about. If there's something under the water, couldn't have been something
gigantic? It could be what like, do you ever see this big ship? That's why as a person,
so I love like swimming out into the ocean by miles and Olympic swimmers, like,
I love that feeling, but I'm also terrified when I swim because the abyss, it could anything could
be under there. I like, there's not enough focus on that, perhaps because there's no visibility.
But is it, is there anything interesting to say about the possibility that was anything
underneath there? Could be. I mean, think about it, if you're going to hide on this planet,
where's, what's the least explored spot on the planet? Two thirds of it's the ocean.
There's literally, I mean, come on, the Malaysia airplane, the 777, it was the 777 that crashed,
you know, they turned, they didn't go where they're supposed to and they just disappeared and
they've been searching for it and they found pieces of it. But you would think there's large
objects that, you know, when that thing hit the water, depending on how it broke up, there's big
pieces that would be, you'd find something, they haven't found anything except what floated.
So to hide something underwater, I think would be easy.
So, okay, let's go a little bit in speculation land, but it's the best, it's the best we can do,
which is the basic question of what do you think was it? So if you had to put money on it,
is it like advanced human creative technology? Is it alien technology? Is it an unknown physical
phenomena? You know, like ball lightning, for example, there's a lot of fascinating things
we probably just don't really understand. Is it, like I said, some perception cognition that led
you some kind of hallucination that made you to misinterpret the things you were seeing?
Let me put those things on the table. Or is it misinterpretation of some
known physical phenomena like an ice cloud or something like that? What do you think it was?
No, it's definitely, I don't think it's an ice cloud because ice clouds don't fly around.
Yep.
And react to you. Do I think it was a light? I'd say no, because of the aspects and what we looked
and watched it do. I'd say no. What do you mean by light?
Like a light ball, you know, some type of perception, you know, there's their experience,
like plasma, you can do plasma and you can go, I can see it, but it's really not,
you know, it's plasma. I don't think so. You would see distortions, I think, as it moved.
Maybe not. I mean, I'm not a theoretical physicist and some, you know, I'm not an MIT.
I would say, no, I mean, it looked from all my experience and I had quite a bit of it when
this happened. No, I think it was a hard object. It was aware that we were there.
It reacted exactly like if I was another airplane and I had to come up and do something exactly
what I would do. You know, it mirrored me. It wasn't aggressive. You know, there's taco.
It flopped behind us. It was never offensive on us. It never did that. It just mirrored us.
So as we're coming out, it's just like, you know, you're kind of, you know,
you said you do martial arts, you know, or wrestling, you know, you see people out on the,
when they get into the ring, especially with collegiate wrestling, because my roommate in
college was a collegiate wrestler. So I de facto became a wrestler because he beat me up every
night and we joke. I talked to him literally probably three, four times a week. But, you know,
you see wrestlers when they get out, they kind of, you're kind of feeling each other as you walk
on boxers do the same thing. It was doing that same thing. It's like, what's going on as it comes
around, as it comes around. And then it was like, Hey, we're going to get here. And when I got too
close to it, you know, it decided I'm out of here. And then it did something that we've never seen.
The other question is, what if I didn't cut across the circle? What if I just kept going
around a circle? We just keep going. I could have just watched it. I mean, my one regret out of the
whole thing is we have a camera in our helmet and the joint helmet. There's a little camera,
but we never use it because it's nauseating to watch because you've ever put a GoPro on someone's
head where they're looking around like this all the time, it'll, it'll nauseate you. So we never
turn that on and all, you know, it's the one thing I didn't do is reach down and hit the switch.
You know, and then we didn't go back and because our tapes didn't have anything because we didn't
get it on radar because I tried to lock it up because I can move the radar with my head, but I
couldn't, it wouldn't lock the radar would lock and so. So then the question is, and this is unanswerable,
but let's try to get some hints at it. Do you think it's human, like advanced human created
technology that's simply top secret that we're just not aware of? Or is it not something not of this
world? So you, if you to ask me in 2004, I just said, I don't know. If you ask me now, so we're
coming up on 16 years ago for a technology like that, you know, and let's assume that it didn't
have a conventional propulsion system in it because I don't think it did. I would like to think that
if we had a technology that would advance mankind leaps and bounds from what we normally do,
then it would start coming out. But to hide something like that for 16 years, you know, and I
understand, you know, and I don't speak for the United States government and I never will speak
for the United States government, but I understand how some of that stuff works for classification
levels and why we classify stuff. You know, is it detrimental to national defense? But there's a
point where you have to look and go, if we had a technology like this that could literally change the
way mankind travels, how we get things into space, our ability to do things, you know, you talk about,
you know, are we going to go to Mars? Well, if you have something that has the ability to go,
because remember, these things were coming down when the cruise retracted from above 80,000 feet,
which is space, and they would come down and they would come straight down, they'd hang out at like
20,000 feet, and then three or four hours later, they'd go back up. We don't have anything that
can come down, hang out in once, you know, and I'm talking, hold out in a spot. Well, we all know
there's winds, they're not drifting like a balloon, they're just sitting there. And then they would
go back up and they tracked up to the, when I talked to the controller, he's like, we've seen up to 10
of these things. There's other guys and it was raining and all this other, let's just say they
tracked a groups of these things coming down, hanging out and going up. So it's not just propulsion
and the way it moves, it's also fuel. It's everything. So the whole, the whole of it indicates
of a kind of technology that's highly advanced, but you don't think in your sense that you actually
don't know, but you know more than a lot of people in your sense, the top secret military
technology, if we think about Skunk Works, if we think about like that,
cannot be more than 15 years ahead.
I would say for a leap like that, and a perfect example in modern times is the 117,
because now a lot of the data on the 117 is out, like it was developed at this time.
It flew for this long before it was actually acknowledged by the United States government.
What's the 117?
That's the stealth fighter, the original stealth fighter, not the B2, but the stealth fighter.
So if you look at that, you know, yeah, you can, I think you can hide things for a while,
but I think a technology, a leap, I mean, this is not a, hey, we developed this and we're kind
of pushing the edge of technology. This is a giant leap in technology. And the other one is,
do we have the basis to do that? Because usually when you have a technology like that,
universities, especially the one you're working at, MIT, a lot of the leading edge stuff is
coming out of the top tier universities. You know, so you've got MIT, you've got Caltech,
you've got Stanford, Georgia Tech, Virginia Tech, Carnegie Mellon, I'm just naming schools,
Naval Postgraduate School is another one. There's usually indicators, there's papers of, hey,
this is where we're going. I don't think there's a whole bunch of papers on developing a gravity
based propulsion system that literally I've got an object because how do you, how much power would it
cost to create a gravity field of your own that could actually be strong enough to counter
the giant orb that we live on? So by the way, you mentioned gravity based. That's kind of like the
hypothesizing that people do in terms of propulsion, like what kind of propulsion would have to be
involved in order to result in that kind of movement. To me, all the gravity discussions just
seems insane from a physics perspective. But of course, it would seem insane until it's not.
But because remember, we only know what we know.
Yeah. And which is very little. And as someone has to think out of the box to go,
is this possible at all? Yeah. Well, okay, so this, so you're saying that if you had to bet money,
all your money, it will be something that's alien technology. So it's not human created
technology. Well, I don't like to get into little green men, but I would say that I don't,
I don't think we've developed it. I don't have to be little green men, right?
I don't think we've developed it. I just, you know, because the other one, someone asked me,
they said, what if there wasn't, maybe it was just a drone, maybe it was a UAV
that got sent here from someplace else. I mean, we've got stuff out there flying around.
So I don't, I don't know. I mean, I'd like to sit around and talk to some of the
giant brains that think this stuff up. I was supposed to be on a podcast with one of them.
Which topic? Which, you mean the drones for? Just space travel, technology,
because if you look at where we're going, you know, because everyone talks about Mars.
Are you okay? And, you know, we're, hey, are we going to be able to colonize, you know,
and I know Elon is big into that. Yeah, what do you think about,
what do you think about Elon, SpaceX, NASA? We put humans back up, back up there.
My theory, so it's funny because I know one of the guys that was, he was one of the original
employees at SpaceX. He's a friend of mine and I won't say his name, but he knows Elon. He knows
Elon and he actually worked on the entire Falcon 1 project. He's one of the lead guys on that.
So he's got some great, as a matter of fact, there's a movie, there's a book coming out
that comes out in about a year on this, the original, the first years of space, first six
years of SpaceX, you know, and he's named in the book, you know, and they're supposed to make
a movie on it. So I'm like, hey, who's going to play it? But what he's done, to me, it changed the
game and here's why. Because I said, you know, in, I think it was 62 when Eisenhower warned of the
industrial defense complex, you know, which it has become everything he warned us of,
you know, it has become. And it's really driven by, there's the big three in defense, which is
really Northrop, Lockheed, and Boeing. Those are the big, those are your bigs. And Raytheon's kind
of right, like a subset of that, but Raytheon's pretty big too. But in U.S. defense, those are
the big guys, right? That's actually where a lot of military guys go and they retire, they
go do stuff like that. So when you look at that and you go in the way government contracting
is working and how we charge and, you know, why things cost so much. And then you go, you got
Elon, who's got an ego, you know, and he doesn't like to do things certain way. And I've talked
to the guy that worked there on, you know, because the government likes to have oversight of contracts
where he was like, no, just tell me what you want. I'll build it and I'll give you a bill when it's
done. And then if I do it for half the price, I make a ton of money because he's money driven guy,
which I like capitalism at its best. So now you look at the two things. So you got the space
X, which is the dragon capsule, right? And then you've got Boeing. So Elon did what Boeing is
contracted to do in less time for half the money. And oh, by the way, because he can reuse the
boosters because they come back and land and you don't have to like Morton Thycall, we've
reused them on the space shuttle, but they had to take them all apart and do a bunch of stuff
because they landed in saltwater and then you had to put them all back together where Elon gets
them down because I was joking with this guy. I go, what do they do? Do they like re rehaul,
you know, overhaul me because no, actually they clean them up and they can use them again. They're
reusable systems. Incredible leap in technology that no one thought of, but here's a private company.
So being able to put people on and the capsule and the space suits, I mean, it's literally like
sci fi when you watch when they went up. So I'm a huge fan of what he and his company have been
able to do because, you know, the fact that we were paying huge amounts of money to the Russian
government, you know, and oh, by the way, if you didn't know, because I have some friends that are
astronauts, they all have to learn Russian, right? And they have to do, it's what level five where
the test is a phone call where they call you up and they, you know, because they would go,
so I went to the pinning and two friends of mine. The one actually had a mission date,
the one got one later. So it's cool when you're watching your friends doing a space walk, you
know, because I would pull up because if I knew it was going on, I'd pull up the NASA thing. I was
in a meeting one day and I've got NASA on and makers out there floating around, you know,
doing his stuff. And I saw one, he's in the space station while they're doing a space walk. So it's
kind of cool when you go, oh, yeah, I know that dude, he's up there in space, floating around.
So when you look at what those, they're capable of doing and then you go, what Elon is bringing to
the fact that now it's back in America, it's actually, to me, it's cost effective for us to
be able to do more stuff. I think it opens the door to, do we go back to the moon? Is there a
reason to go back to the moon? Personally, I think if we're going to, if they're really going to go,
you know, in years from now, go to Mars, I think that the moon is the stepping stone to go back
to start proving some of the technology to go, hey, we can build this, we can get on the moon,
and now we can get back off the moon because we did this on a less than a compact computer in the
60s, which is the whole reason that I flew because I'm obsessed. Matter of fact, I have the giant
Lego Apollo at home and the Lander and I have one that my dad built me in 1969, right after that.
And Neil Armstrong's an Ohio boy and so am I. Matter of fact, I have a picture of him in a
car in Wapa Caneta, Ohio at the parade after he walked on the moon because his parents didn't
live far from my aunt and uncle in Wapa Caneta and they were out at the parade. So I've been obsessed
with this since I was a child. Do you hope to, do you think, do you hope that you'll go out to
the space one day? Me, if I had the opportunity, I'd go in a second, you know, I am not. Because
I mean, that's one of the hopes of the commercial spaceflight is that, you know, like people like,
I mean, it would be a tourism, but you certainly wouldn't want to, in terms of, you're not kind
of a civilian, right? I mean, in a sense that you're just a normal person, you're not a fighter
jet pilot currently, but it seems like if we send a civilian up there would be somebody like you
in the next like 20 years. I'd be, you know, if Elon wants to throw me all those things,
I'd be all over it. I don't know what my wife would say, but you know, sometimes you gotta,
gotta get your kicks while you're alive. I'd love to hear that discussion with your wife.
Listen, there's the pros and cons. She's, she's, I mean, I've known her since high school. So she,
yeah, she knows how I am, you know, most people that know me are like, yeah, you're pretty much
the same person you were in high school. You know, I was a class clown and I still am that way.
Okay. So, let me ask you this question about, so I'm talking to Elon again soon. I'm curious
to get your perspective on it. If I wanted to talk to him about Tic Tac, about these weird
out there propulsion ideas, which are obviously just like you said, if there's something to it,
if it can be investigated somehow, it would be extremely useful for us to understand in the
effort of developing propulsion systems that can get us cheaply to out the space. What,
what should Elon think about this stuff? What should he do? What should people like him?
I think people need to open their aperture up and stay off of, take the next step and go,
you know, we are tied to fuels and either solid rocket or liquid or whatever we do,
but it's a thrust generated where we rapidly expand gas to create thrust,
which is really in layman's terms, you know, we can get into what, but that's what it does.
If you have something that you can contain that is a fuel source that would last a significant
amount of time, you know, those rocket boosters go and when they're done, they're done. There's
enough to get them back down. That's it. There's not a huge, you know, not coming back and go,
oh, I still got three quarters of a tank. Let's bolt them on and do it again. His system is not
doing that. But, you know, the way, the way contracting, especially in the government,
the government has tons of money, but you got to remember the government has to justify how
they spend our tax dollars for the most part. There's times where they can hide money in the
budget to get stuff done. But then when you look at, and I'm just going to throw a few out there,
but if you look at what Amazon, you know, does with Bezos and you've got Elon,
there's some, there's some big money out there. I mean, you're talking, you know, Bezos alone
could buy companies like big companies, Apple's another one. These companies had huge, huge
amounts of money and then just go over to the Gates Foundation and they've got gazillions
and gazillions of dollars. We've got universities. There's so much money out there. If we really
wanted to do it, aside from what the government wants to do, because we do live in a free society,
I think there's enough to go, how do we do this? And because when you work outside of what the
government would want to do, we're not working on this necessarily for the United States,
although I am a huge giant. I would never, yeah, I am an American.
You're talking to somebody born in the Soviet Union. I can't believe you agreed to this.
But I haven't killed me yet. Yeah, well, you're here. And you've been here for a while.
No, I'm joking. I'm an American citizen. I'm actually pretty much American.
But see, when you do that, so you look at, let's just look at American universities.
Yes. So there's some brilliant minds and we'll just use MIT because you worked down there.
There's some brilliant minds, but there's a huge chunk of those brilliant minds that are not American
citizens. So if you want to get into government stuff and you are not an American citizen,
it gets really, really, really hard. But if I take money like Bezos money, Elon money,
and let's just say they want to work together, they can split it up 50, 50, the two of them,
when the technology gets developed. But now I'm not constrained by who has to do the work.
I just want to make sure that I try and keep it in the United States because
technology is technology. And if it gets developed and gets over to where
a country gets ahold of it and then just basically uses it for their own because
you save them all the research time, you don't want to do that. But if we can get to the point
where we do it on the International Space Station, we realize that space was too expensive
for one country to do alone. So we made the International Space Station and we have
conglomerate. It's the one thing that the Russians in the US actually work together on.
Think about it. That's it. We work together on space because we realize it's way too expensive
for us to do alone and effective. So we've got this thing that's been out there floating around
for God now. What is it? Like 20 years that things been up there floating around? So it's
getting old. We're going to have to replace parts and do stuff. But if we can pool the money together
and come up with something that would literally change mankind and change travel and allow us to
actually do a more effective thing of exploring. Because if you develop that technology, you don't
even have to send a man person. If you can develop a technology that's so with our automation and
where we're progressing and our computing power to send something out that's not just floating
around when it can react a lot quicker. Something that could actually go down to the surface and
come back up. So right now everything we get out of Mars, it goes down there and then it just sends
data back. Get an analyzer. But if I've got a technology that can go up there really quick,
I'm not worried about man, I don't have life support systems and all that. But it can go down,
it can go, it can cruise around, it can hover above, it can take samples, and it can actually
take Martian soil and then bring it back. So we can analyze it here. That's a game changer.
It's a complete game changer because it opens up all the planets. Exactly. So in the sense that
the Tic Tac is a symbol. So whatever you think, even from a debunking perspective,
there's a nonzero probability that it's alien technology. And in that sense, it serves as a
beacon of hope and a reason to, like you said, widen the aperture and to invest big amounts of
money into thinking outside the box. Like it's almost a hope to say we can do better propulsion.
We can overcome physics in an order of magnitude better way. And it's worthwhile to try.
I think, and I don't think the money, if you look at a big picture with the amount of money,
some of that's out there floating around these private companies, you know, I think if you said,
hey, I've got, let's just say a hundred million dollars, which really a hundred million dollars
relative to Bezos has got what, a hundred and some billion dollars in that word. So if he said,
hey, a hundred million dollars, you drop a hundred million dollars and I go, and I'm going to put a,
you know, like the government will send a broad area announcement out that says, hey,
we're looking for this technology or a DARPA program. But what if I just said, hey, who's to
stop Bezos and Elon from doing that on their own to say, hey, I want to go pool universities because
they have fewer restrictions because it's not tax dollars. They don't have the checks and bounds.
They can do whatever they want. So they're money. Oh, I'm sorry about that. To go, hey,
I'm going to put this out and I'm going to get the best physicists that are working at CERN,
that are at MIT, that are at Caltech at the schools I mentioned. And oh, by the way,
a few of these guys are propulsion experts. And I'm going to basically, I'm going to fund you guys
for 10 years. So you get 10 million dollars a year and I'm going to give you your salaries and
we're going to do that or whatever the amount works. So let's cut it down to five so we can pay
you well, right? To do the research. But oh, by the way, the research is, it's not classified,
but it's controlled. So we're not going to publicly just put this out in journals. But if we make a
leap that we think would advance because although those, let's say there's 10 of them, those 10
scientists come up with something and they put out a paper, there might be another number 11
at another university that reads that paper and says, hey, I kind of had this idea. And now you
can get a thought pool that pushes us in and gets us out of the mindset because we have a tendency to
we evolve the stuff that we create. But it's like I was joking because I know a ton of guys with
PhDs and girls. And I said, but you know, how much when a person gets a PhD in like engineering,
how much new math is really being done? I said, there's a handful of people in the world that
are really doing, I'm talking, I'm talking Stephen Hawkins type brilliance that is going,
I'm really doing something that's totally different. That's a big dramatic thing now going on in
physics that everybody's just, everybody's converged towards this local minima or local
maximum, whatever you think about it. And it's, it's again, same as with the Tic Tac,
thinking outside the box is not, is not accepted. And it probably should be.
But it's hard because if you go back, go back to Einstein, back to the original,
he was the, he was out of the box. He did not think that he did not thought out of the box and
came up with some of his theories. Where would we be? Okay, we're jumping around a little bit.
So we talked a little bit about Elon and Mars and space, but let's let me jump back to a few
questions that folks had. I have to kind of bring up some debunking stuff, because I think not the
actual idea, not the actual facts of the debunking, but the nature of the true believers versus the
debunkers hurts my heart a little bit because people are just talking past each other. But let
me kind of bring it up. Mick West, I've just recently started to pay attention just in preparing to
talk to you about this world. And Mick West is one of the better known people who kind of makes a
career out of trying to debunk sort of he's a, his natural approach to all situations is that of a
skeptic. I think it's, it's very useful and powerful, especially for me coming from a scientific
perspective to take the approach he does. It's valuable. And I think no matter what, I think
there's, I hope that people quote unquote true believers are a little bit more open minded to
the work of Mick West. I think it's quite useful and brilliant work. So let me ask, he has a bunch
of videos, a bunch of ideas where he kind of suggests possible other explanations of the
things that were out there. He has some explanations of the things that you've seen in with the
tic tac, like with your own eyes, like he says that it's possible that you miscalculated the size
and the distance of the thing and so on when you were flying on. I don't fight that as a,
I mean, maybe you can comment on that. Let me do it right now. Sure. So because that comes up,
like how did you know it was about 40 feet long? I go, okay, so 16 years flying against other
airplanes, know what stuff looks like, you know, I've looked down on things. So if I know, I know,
here's the known things. I know when we saw the tic tac, I was at 20,000 feet ish right around there.
So when I look down, I know what a hornet looks like looking down on them because I've done it
for all those years. I mean, I got a good idea. So that's why I said 40 feet because it's about
hornet size. So and as I go around, you get to the point where you have to be able to judge
distance when we fly out of experience and you can tell if something small or big, you know,
so I would argue the fact of, you know, pure experience, there's, you know,
you know, professional observers, which is what we're actually trained to do.
And having done it for so long, no, it was, and everyone came back with the same thing.
They're like, yeah, it's about size of hornet. From a human factors perspective,
how often in your experience of those 16 years, do you find that I, what you see
is the incorrect state of things. So like, how often do you make mistakes with vision?
You actually, you make vision issues a lot because you're, and the sad part is your brain
believes what your eyes see. We are actually trained to do the opposite of that, especially
when you instrument fly, because your brain and eyes can tell you one thing, but you got to trust
your instruments. Let's go back to landing at night. So your eyes assume that the runway and
your brain assumes that the runway is fixed, but you know that the runway is moving. So if I try
and do stuff visually, I would, you die every time. Well, not every time, but you die close to
every time trying to land on a boat. So we actually use instruments with your counter
to your brain. So, and there's actually all kinds of things that we go through in training.
They have this thing, I think they still use it. It's called the MSD,
multi spatial disorientation device, or the spin and puke. It looks like a giant
carousel and you're in these little modules. And when you get out, you think the thing goes
really fast and they can, you can make yourself think that I'm descending or climbing, but you're
actually only going around in circles at a very slow rate as fast as a human can talk. But as they
spin you around in the little sub thing and slow it down and speed it up, your body does this and
you, you know, and then by visuals of showing you like they can spin it sideways to the outside
wall, but they can show like lines that are, they can make the line stand still because they're
moving the same velocity. They can move in the other way and you'll think you're screaming.
You see it in amusement parks all the time. You do all that because it gives you a sense of
the A, but you're really not doing, you're sitting there. So we get trained on all that stuff. So if
you, if you want to look at it and go, well, you're, you're disoriented or this I'd be like,
I'd argue going, no, I'm not because, you know, when I'm flying the airplane, even as I'm looking
at the tic tac, I've got a heads up display that tells me what my airplane's doing. So I've got, I
know what I'm doing. I can look outside. I've got a sense of what I'm doing, but I'm also looking
inside to cross check of what I'm seeing is in reality what I'm doing. You actually, your brain
gotten good at combining almost adding extra sensory information. You have to, you have like
supervision. So you're combining what you're seeing and adjusting what the sensors, what you call
an instruments are giving you. And that, that in turn is a loop that adjusts the perception system
that like, that it, that adjusts your brain's interpretation of what you're seeing.
You'd be amazed at how good. So here's, here's another example. So if we go out over the water,
so there's no land in sight and we're going to fight. So when we fight, you know,
two airplanes, we're going to dog fight as an instructor and I was for most of my time,
you have to come back and you have to recreate it. So we call it drawing arrows. So you have to
recreate that stuff. So you get pretty good at going, you know, like, I would take off and say,
right, we're starting heading due East. And I know where the sun is at, because in the short
couple of minutes that we're going to fight, the sun's really not going to move much. It's going
to be in a relative zone. I know that the sun is at, you know, let's just say 195 degrees,
right? So I'm starting going East and it's actually be down off my right hand side.
So now I know as I'm fighting, because in the water, you don't have any reference like, oh,
I passed land, I passed land. No, you don't. And you can't use clouds because clouds do move,
but you got to come back because you go, here's where I started. And then you,
when, as soon as you end, you go, all right, I ended heading 355. And then you recreate the
turns and the amount of turns and use the sun relative. So you can create this entire
battle that went on with arrows so that you can come back and debrief the guy that you were teaching
on exactly what happened. And you get really, really good at that. So when you come up and go,
well, Dave, how do you know you were at six o clock? And you went around and he came up here,
I go, because I'm trained to do all that. And I take all the notes, why I'm flying, you can do
it. But usually it's, you memorize it all and you get done. And then you read, as soon as you're
done, you knock it off, you look at the other airplane, you get sent and you start writing
all your notes down. Yeah. And you're writing it really fast on your cart and you go out with a
stack of cards and you stick the new one on your knee board card. So you're ready to go. And here's
the next setup. It's kind of, it's in some way similar to what like at the highest level chess
players do. I mean, you're, I mean, they, they, they recap the games, but the, the richness
of the representation that they use in remembering like how the games evolved. It's not like,
it's much richer than the actual moves. It's like these, a bunch of patterns that are hard to put
into words, like, like all the richness of thinking they have about the way they game
evolved. It's more like instinctual from years and years of experience. So they try to put it
into words, but they really can't. It's, it's just. I understand that. It's because for us,
if we don't come back with anything, then there's no learning to be had. Cause the whole thing is
the debrief when we get back and we talk about, that's really where they're learning is. And it's
the same thing. If you want to go back to chess, you know, when you start off, you try and learn
because you're remembering what you're doing. If you play against someone, I'm always a big place,
play with someone better than you. That's how you learn. If you're constantly beating people,
you're not learning anything. You're just learning that they're not good and you're better. When you,
when you challenge yourself against someone that is going to, is better than you, you learn. So I
learned how to fight an airplane with, he's actually one of my best friends. We'll call him
Tom. I won't give his call sign because I don't, he wasn't. So Tom took me out and taught me how
to fight because Tom had just left Top Gun. He was the, the, the training officer at Top Gun,
which so that's the guy, the training officers, the main guy at Top Gun. So Tom was the training
officer at Top Gun. So Tom, when I learned, cause I had come out of A six and we really don't fight
because it was a bomber. So I get in F 18s and I want to learn how to fight because it's a whole
other side of the mission. It's the F and F fighter attack. The F A 18 is fighter attack. So I had
to learn how to fight. So now I got one of the best fighter pilots in the world who's going to teach
me how to do it. And he did. And I would do something and then he would go, I'd get to a
situation where I had never been and then I would go, well, I'm going to do this. And then he would
destroy me and he would come back and go, here's why you don't do that. And then I would take that
knowledge and I would put it in my little basket of tricks and over time, cause you don't, no one
walks out into that world. I don't care how gifted of an aviator and go, I am the man or the woman.
I am it. No, it's a learning process. And so over all those years, you've gotten good. So I mean,
so what are the chances that your eyes betrays you when you saw the tic tac?
The tic tac low zero. Well, I mean, I'm not zero. So 90, I am 99.9%. So 0.1%. My eyes deceive me.
But remember, if it deceived me, it had to deceive the other four people. So the percentage is even
lower. Yeah. Okay. Well, I don't find that particular debunking case that you said, but I'm glad you
put it. You, you said those words out loud. So for me, from my perspective, coming into this world
and looking at it, I'm a little bit more skeptical. So your eye account, I think is the most fascinating
story. And that I think that's inspiring to me and should be inspiring to a lot of scientists out
there. It's on so many levels, just like we said, on the engineering level, that maybe there's
propulsion systems where we can actually build that can do some crazy, amazing stuff. So it's
at the very least intriguing and at the best inspiring. I just want to say that. But on the
video side, it's like, it's the videos for the FLIR video, the GoFast and the Gimbal video,
they are only interesting to me, to me in the context of your story. Like without that, they're
kind of low resolution. It's like, it's easier to build a debunking story to be skeptical. So
that's just where I'm coming from. Maybe you can convince me otherwise. But so to bring up
Mick West one more time, he looks at the FLIR video and he says that one of the most amazing
parts of the FLIR video where people haven't seen it is at the end of it, the tic tac
flies or appears to fly very quickly to the left off the screen off the screen. And what Mick West
says is that it, you know, Mick West, probably others that the way to explain that is the tracking
system. Like we said, this vision based tracking simply loses the like the object, the tracking
loses it. And so it simply allows the object to float off screen because it's no longer tracking
it. So I find that at least a plausible explanation of that video. Looking at your face, you do not.
So can you maybe comment to that debunking aspect? Sure, I will. So it's funny how people can
extrapolate stuff who've never operated the system. No, for sure. And that's like me going,
because I'm a big Formula One fan, you know, that's like me going, oh my god, Lewis, what were you
doing? You could have done this with the car and you'd have won the race. You know, and Lewis
Hamilton right now is defending world champion two times. He's four times, four or five times world
champion. But that would be pretty stupid of me to try and tell Lewis Hamilton how to drive a car.
As a matter of fact, anyone driving a Formula One car. So I can't tell you how many times I've
watched. You gotta remember when we looked at this thing, when Chad came back with the video,
we sat there and watched it. I mean, I can't tell you how many times I watched it off the original
tapes going, all right, all right, let's look at this. Because you can look and see where the
airplane's going. You can see if it's looking left or right. And if you actually watch all that
stuff, it doesn't do that. It actually, when the vehicle starts to move, the bars, the tracking
gate starts to open up and the people at Raytheon could probably add to this because they built
the pod. The tracking gate will start to open up. But the thing, when it leaves so fast off the
screen, the pod can't move fast enough, it has gimbal rates on how fast that thing can move
around. Because there's another theory that, oh, the pod's looking forward. When the pod passes
underneath the airplane, so if I'm looking at you and you pass underneath me as it does this,
the ball will actually flip around to kind of finish off. And it swaps ends because it has,
you know, it's a gimbal. It can't just, it's not free floating. But there's a theory on one of
them, oh, it's here and it flipped over. It doesn't do that when it's looking out in front. It stays
like this. So yet another debunker who doesn't know this. So, you know, and Mick has had several
theories on some of the other videos, like one of them, the GoFats as a bird and Jeremy Corbell
actually did a nice job of saying, no, it's not because he's on black hot. So the white object
is actually colder than the ocean. That's fine. Well, birds aren't colder than the ocean. They'd
be dead. So the gimbal video to comment on the amazing aspect of that video is the rotation,
the apparent rotation of the object that is something that is not possible to do with systems
that we know of. And Mick West suggests that a flare like reflections or whatever can explain.
No, because what Mick West doesn't see is so when they take, because I've talked to the,
one of them actually I work with. So I know him, I know I talk to him all the time. So,
and it's his best friend actually shot the video, one of his best friends for the
gimbal video, the gimbal video, both of them, the GoFats and the gimbal were shot by the same
person. Yeah. Okay. So, and they were in each other's wedding. So that's how well they know each
other. Okay. So what you don't see is so the airplanes, they're flying still super hornets,
but they have the APG 79, which is the new phased array radar that's made by Raytheon,
things incredible. Okay. It doesn't, usually if it's, if it's out there and it sees it, it's real.
So at first they thought they were ghost tracks when they started seeing stuff and then they
actually threw one of the targeting pods out there. Well, the targeting pod, there's heat
signature and you go, Hey, dot heat signature, something's there. It's real. It's not,
you're not picking up some extraneous things. So what you see in the gimbal video of the thing
and it rotates and you go, Holy shit, look at that thing. It's just sitting there and it's in
the wind and it's going against the wind. Why it's doing this, you know, someone goes, Oh,
it's an airplane. No, if an airplane does this, it's eventually going to start to change aspect
because it's in a turn. This thing doesn't change aspect. It just rotates. It's just rotating.
Right. The other thing that you see when you talk to them is, so they're on their radar,
there's an object that they identify as their number one priority or their launch and steering.
So when they designate that, that's where the targeting pods going to look. That's what you
get in the gimbal video. There's five other, I think it's five. They're kind of in a V, you know,
like a geese would fly that are out in front of it and they're actually coming, they're out in
front of it and they actually turn on the radar and go the other way while they're filming the
gimbal video, which I know Ryan has come out and talked about it. But when you see it, you go,
you know, if you take it in context because you go, Oh, it's just the video. Well, if you take
the video with a radar going, no, there's actually other things out there because there's at least
60 people that have seen these things on radar off the vacapes. It was, it actually became,
I called a buddy of mine who was running the wing at the time, the fighter wing.
I said, dude, what are you guys doing about this? He goes, well, we got to note him out,
which is a notice to airmen, which means there's these objects out there in the warning area.
So anyone can, you can fly a Cessna through the warning area. It's all the warning area tells
you is that there's high military traffic and training out here. It's probably best not to be
here, but there's nothing that prohibits you from going in there. So these things have the right
wherever they're from or whatever they are, you know, cause people are like, oh, they're balloons.
Well, balloons float. Balloons don't sit in 70 knots of wind and stay in the same location.
They had an airplane because there was two, there's the gimbal thing. That's a pretty big object.
There's also, they talk about, it looks like a cube that's inside of a sphere.
A translucent sphere. What the hell is that? And they almost hit one.
It's almost hit them. So that's another, that's one of the biggest,
another biggest account is like almost hit a plane, something that appeared to be a cube in a
translucent sphere. What do you make of that? Again, you know, what, what, I mean, that, that's,
that's the most dangerous. You're right. The biggest frustration is when you do that and you go,
okay, so this thing passed between two airplanes and it was, I think it was like 100 feet or
something like that of the airplane and almost hit it. So what they do is they come back and go,
hey, I had a near midair. What'd you have a near midair with? Now this floating beach ball with
this cube inside of it and you go, huh? So they send out a no tam again and they, they do a,
what's called a hazard report that says, hey, there's these objects out there. We almost hit one
here and that gets sent off to the Naval Safety Center. What was done? I mean, what are you going
to do? Can you catch one, go out with a giant net and try and bag one? You don't know because
they've seen them. They've picked them up like hovering on radar and then all of a sudden they're
traveling at really high rates of speed. So, you know, what are you going to do?
Well, and that, let me ask this because this is what people kind of think about.
After you witnessed Tic Tac and after this, these incidents, as far as we know, with the gimbal and
the Go Fast, it seems like people in the military did not, did not react like what, like did not
freak out. It almost like was like a mundane event. How do you explain that? Why didn't the people on
the ship not, the higher ups, why wasn't there a big freak out? Or as some people suggest,
the higher ups knew about it all along and just were not letting everyone know that there's some
kind of secret military, you know, like tests almost. So let's talk about, so let's say you've
got this cool new toy. You call it a cool new toy. You typically don't take your cool new toy out
into an area where the cool new toy could get damaged or what if the airplane would have actually
hit your cool new toy and you got two people that are ejecting or dead and you got a, you know,
$80 million airplane that's now in the bottom of the Atlantic. You know, tests are normally done
in controlled environments. It's like any test, a lab test or whatever. When you take things out
into the real world, you know, you're still going to test it in an area where something goes wrong.
So when they started and we'll go back to Elon, so my friend that worked there, they had a rocket
go off. They were out in quadruple and when the rocket went up, a fuel line ruptured in the rocket
and it ran out of fuel before it got all the way up and it came falling back down. Well,
when you're out on an atoll in the Pacific, if it's going up above you, the worst case is going
to land on you. So you're worried about where else is it going to land and it actually crashed
next to the atoll and, you know, Elon wasn't happy and threw this guy under the bus. So
that's a test environment because you don't know what's going to happen. So because someone said,
well, when we chase the TicTac, well, it could have been some secret government thing. Well,
secret government things typically just don't come out and test to where there's unknowing
pilots. We can't control a lot of things. You're exactly right. So you go, you know, it's, you
know, it's not the Dr. Evil scientist that's going to throw shit out there to get, there's
reasons that we do it because a lot of stuff, especially when you get to, there's, there's,
you build something in theory, you model it, you go, hey, this is, it looks like it's going to work,
you get funding, you build it, you test it some more, you bench test it, you know, you, like an
airplane with digital flight controls before it even leaves the ground, they've got things over
the pedostatic system that are changing the, what the airplane thinks is the airspeed talking to it,
and it's probably up on jacks so the gear up. So it doesn't, it thinks it's flying. It doesn't know.
It's sitting on jack stands and they're just changing the pressure on the pedostatic system
so they can actually make the flight controls move and they can get all the data back to go,
hey, it looks like it's going to work. And then there's wind, there's a bunch of stuff that they
do. That's a control environment which you can do the testing. Yeah. Throwing shit out in the middle
of where people are doing exercises is the most preposterous thing that I've heard. Is it possible?
Yes. Is it more really, is it, is it, is it, it's more likely, it's more likely they're not doing
that. Yeah. Then the other, the other side of that question is why do you think people on the
Nimitz and in the US government in general not freak out more at the incredible thing that you've
seen? Freak out in the positive way, freak out in the negative way. Like what are the Russians
up to again? Or, or more like what is this? Like more turmoil. So if you were to put a Chinese flag
on the side of it or a Russian flag on the side of it and I said, yeah, it had a big Russian flag
on the side of it, dude, then it would have got a lot of attention. It would have went high order.
Yeah. Right. If it was, you don't have to say Russia or China. Just say, if there was another
country's emblem on the side of this thing that we saw and said, oh, it belonged to them, then
it's a big deal. So here's what's going on. So we're literally in the middle of workups and it
was a joint workup. Normally they, we go out for a month, go come back, do stuff, go out for a month.
This was a two month at sea period where we actually had to beg for them to let us when the
ship pulled in at Thanksgiving so we could run home up to the Central Valley, have Thanksgiving
with our family and then run back down and do this. Okay. So, you know, and I had just taken over,
I had had the squadron for a month. Right. So I'm a brand new CEO. I'm the most junior guy on the,
as far as a commanding officer goes for time in the Navy. And actually at the time,
I think it was the most junior CEO for O5 command in the Navy. Right. So you go, okay,
so I'm out here. I got my squadron. I'm running it. I see this thing. You know, we catch shit for it.
I have a squadron to run. I have the, the, the, the tic tac was over here. And although an extra
ordinary event, I have 17 aircrew and 300 sailors that I'm responsible for. Right. Their wellbeing,
making sure they're fed, making sure they're happy, they're birthing, you know, and I'm working with
my master chief and I'm working with my exo snap. And, and we're going through all this stuff.
I don't have a lot of time to worry about the tic tac. Yeah. If people need to talk to me,
so you got to remember, you got the captain of the ship, you got the airplane commander,
and you got the admiral, those are the top three. And you got the CEO of the, the Princeton, who is
a major command guy. And that's really your big major command. And then everything else is you
got all the squadrons, which are O5 command, and you got the small boys that are out there,
which is O5 command. So in the hierarchy, as far as rank and responsibility of what's going on,
I'm pretty much in the top 20 with all my peers. And then I've got obviously the captain,
in the admiral, right. And then he's got some post command guys on his staff that we were
friends with. You're responsible for a lot of things. Yes. Oh yeah. This schedule. Yeah.
There's missions. You have to do a lot, get the job done. And there's no time for silly things.
That's exactly right. So, and we're the, we're the integration, you know, when a, when a battle
group deploys, especially when you go to the Middle East for what we were doing, the air power is
the key. It's we take our airport with us, we can park it anywhere we want, and we can do what we
need to do. So we're kind of key players. So when you get the theory that, oh, all these men in
suits showed up. So the captain of the ship never said anything to me, the admiral never saying
to me, the people on his staff that I was friends with never saying to me, the other COs that I
talked to you on a daily basis never said anything to me. And no one ever came and talked to me,
and I'm the guy that chased it. So in all the theories and all the debunkers and all the stories,
because I don't know if people think they're going to get rich on this, because I made a big
donut on this. I can tell you what I got paid for. I got paid to go out and spend 21 hours of my day
going to LA and do a five minute talk for someone. And I'm like, and it wasn't for the talk because
I'll talk for free because you're not paying me. I said, I said, and then I got paid to go to the
McMinnville Fest because they, my wife and I got to go because it was just look like fun because
the whole town gets involved. And it's the only time I've ever spoken publicly in front of a
large audience about this because it was just, you know, it was fun. And I got asked and Jeremy
and George Nappen went the year before. So I went with Bob Lazar. So I got to hang out with Bob and
his wife and his wife and my wife. And, you know, we all hung out kind of, you know, talking not
about UFO stuff, but just getting to know each other as people because, you know, Bob's like me,
the stuff that he talks about is not the center of his life. If anything, it ruined his life.
Yeah. You know, he's just a really, really smart guy that's just like the rest of us trying to get
through life. Yeah. That's nevertheless, I mean, that was one of the sad things reading
Louis Elizondo's resignation note from his, he was a program director at the ATIP program.
One of the sad things is that he mentioned that, you know, people in government just don't take
this seriously as a threat, like UFOs as a threat. Like you said, if it doesn't have a Russian label
on it, it's a, it's a sad thing to think about that, that we have such a busy schedule that the
anomaly, it doesn't, is a distraction that we don't want to deal with. And it kind of just
fades into history. Like literally, it's kind of sad to think that if aliens showed up,
like, and it just didn't, because they're not like, when aliens show up, they're not going to
be a thing that's on the schedule. And if they don't start killing people, they just kind of show up
in some very nonchalant, peaceful way, briefly, people would be like, that's, that's, that's,
I don't have time for this. That's so sad. That's so sad.
It's like anywhere in the world. So, you know, go back, let's go back way back,
way back in the time machine, you know, there were people kind of scattered around the globe,
you know, in Europe's a perfect example. Why does France speak French? And then right next to them,
Spanish, you know, Spain speaks Spanish, and then you'd kind of jump over in Germans or German and
the Polish people, everyone speaks a different language, because if you look at the way the
train kind of subdivided the original people that were there, you know, thousands of years ago,
they speak differently, right? You'd be like the US, but see, the US is different. We all speak
English, because what happened? We came over and we started on the East Coast, and we migrated
West. We won't get into the, you know, what happened. And, you know, because the Native Americans
all spoke different languages. You know, it's that same type of thing. So, but anytime we have a
tendency to show up, you're, you're actually, you think about, you're an alien. If I go to a
different area, if I just, you know, go back 500 years where, you know, or a thousand years where
travel, we weren't traveling across oceans at the time. We're, well, we don't think we were. The
Vikings probably were, because we had limited, you know, we had to have supplies and the boats
weren't as big. We had to build them by hand. We didn't have power tools and all that stuff. So,
you know, if you show up someplace, like when the conquistadors from Spain came over into South
America and you've got, you know, the natives, you're actually an alien, you know, and then you
look at what typically happens when aliens show up in, in a human alien world, you know, and when
I say alien, I mean, you are not from that area. The other, we, we take what we want. And that's
what happened. I mean, we literally defuncted civilizations because that's how we are. You
know, humans are, we're an interesting group. So, you go, now what, what if something is from
someplace else? Just, let's just, let's just go off the grid and go ask, let's say there are
little green men. What are their intent? Guy, Lou asked me this when we were talking to Lou
Elizondo and he said, what do you think they were here for? I said, I don't know. He goes, what,
I go, oh, they were observing. They'd come down, they'd hang out and he goes, well, what if they
were prepping the battlefield? What if they were observing to figure out what we do? And you go,
that's interesting. The other theory is maybe there's a more advanced civilization out here and
they just check in on us because the threat to an advanced civilization is when a civilization
that's inferior to them actually develops enough and fast enough to become equal or above,
because now these, they become the threatened type. So, you watch us grow until we start getting too
much. You know, it's kind of like you go, well, because they always have a tendency to hang out
around nuclear, right? And you go, well, you know, they're, if this is an advanced civilization,
I'm going to go science fiction kind of comical. They come down and watch us and go, look at the,
the crazy upright monkeys now have developed the atom bomb. Let's hope they don't destroy
themselves. Yeah. If I was an alien civilization, I would start paying attention with the atom bomb.
That's why the, I mean, there's certainly an uptick of what is it, UFO sightings since,
since the nuclear. Since the nuclear. Yeah. That's, you go, hmm. Let me ask a little bit
out there question. Maybe it's speculation, but maybe touching on Roswell. Do you think it's
possible that there is out of this world aircraft or beings that are in the possession of one of
the governments on this earth, like the US government? Is it possible? So the one perspective
of that, if it's possible, is it possible to keep a secret like that? I would say this,
I think it's very, it's highly possible. Because if you go, if you just look at all the sightings
and let's go, just look at Project Bluebook, go, it was what, you have to forget how many
thousands of sightings and there's a percentage, it's like 10 or 15% of them, they still can't
explain. Like our tic tac is one of them. The, you know, they basically, the government has
come out and said, we don't know what that was. Okay. So, so if you go, okay, of that 15% that
we don't know and all these thousands are still that 15% makes up a pretty big number,
what are the chances that not one of them crashed somewhere on the globe and was recovered?
And I don't care if it's an intact system or you got pieces of it of a metal that we can't explain
or some, some biological matter, to say the least. It could be intact or it couldn't, but
the, the odds of that now are starting to go down that, you know, that could never happen. And I'm
not talking just the United States. I'm talking the globally. So is there a chance that a foreign
government actually possesses or our government or someone in the, in the world on the globe of
the seven plus billion people has something that is not from this world. And I'm not talking
to meteor, but something that was manufactured in some way that allowed transport or observation.
Could be a drone, could be a foreign drone, you know, like Voyager flies around and does all
that stuff. And we got stuff that just went past Pluto that's out in the Kuiper Belt. You know,
there's, there's stuff out there floating around. And what about ours? It's going to crash into
Jupiter eventually or whatever, because we've had stuff crash into planets. So if that's the case,
you would think something is out there that we have something that we can't explain. And,
and according to Lou, there's stuff that we can't explain. You know, and I would assume that Lou,
who ran ATIP has, has seen stuff that he can't openly talk about because, you know, because I
had a clearance. When you have a clearance, you were, you sign your name, you're bound to that.
And to me, that's an important oath that you hold to, you know, and this is kind of where,
you know, people have issues with Bob. So if, you know, and I leave it to you to determine if you
believe Bob or not, I'll tell you, Bob is a straightforward, very sane, normal, super smart
guy. Bob was our, yeah. Yes. There is the other side that says, well, should he have come out
and talked, you know, to those who will clearance who, you know, are true to the government, you
would say he should have never spoke. He, he was under an oath to not say anything, but he did.
If you ask Bob, why did you say something? His, his answer was, I understand there's an oath,
but I felt that the technology could benefit all of mankind and it shouldn't be locked away.
And I'll leave it, if you believe Bob, that's, that's kind of what Bob says.
And that, that's such a interesting key point. If there is aircraft, a technology that's in the
possession of the, say the US government, should they make that publicly known? This is this note
in question. This is the question of like, do we release stuff that can potentially change the
nature of human civilization? Like the, the way we, the way we think about our place in the world,
also the, if that technology is potentially useful for military applications, the nature of
military conflict, should we release that information or not? If you were the government?
So here, well, here's exactly how. So for, for classified information, the government is the
people that classify it. So I can't go, I can't look at something and go, oh my God, this avion
bottle is now top secret. I can't, I don't have the authority, the ability or anyone to do that.
That, that's up to the government. And I agree with that because I worked for the government
for 24 years in my life. So I understand that. But now you go, there's reason stuff is classified.
Okay. And it has to do with, sometimes information is classified by how it was obtained.
It's just like the mob. If I have a spy and I'm a mobster and you're the counter mobster,
but I have a guy on the inside that's feeding me information, I can't do it. And a perfect example
is if you've ever seen the, it's the Tom Cruise movie, what is it, Air America or whatever,
but he, he plays the guy in Louisiana who was hauling drugs for Pablo Escobar. And he ended
up getting a cargo plane and the government, the CIA was kind of funding him to do stuff.
That's how he got hooked up with Pablo, but they put cameras on his airplane. And when
Reagan had come out and said, here's pictures, we have proof that they're running these drugs,
it didn't take Pablo long to figure out those pictures were taken from inside of the plane
of this guy he had been working with. And that guy ends up dead. Does that make sense?
So you classify to protect the source, you classify to protect the technology,
because if the technology would get out, it could be grave damage or there's levels,
depending on if it's a secret or top secret. There are levels of damage that can be done
to the US government and our well being as a country. And we owe it to this because we're
all Americans. You know, to me, no matter what some people will say, even into this country,
this is the greatest country on the planet. This is the only country that you have the
ability to do what you want to do. It's just don't be lazy. And I have stories of people
that came over here and started with nothing. And they're, they're living the American dream.
And they'll tell you, and they didn't get it because of, you know, like you, you came over here
from Russia, you get no minority status or anything else, you get, you're a white,
Anglo Saxton Protestant, whatever your religion, but you come over here. I kind of knew that from
the last one. But you come over here, you basically have made yourself. You're educated,
you're working at literally the top research university in the world, to be honest.
I can do whatever the hell I can create with a bit of, with a lot of hard work, I can do quite
And no one gave it to you. So I mean, and I, I'm a believer that like, I mean, we are a community.
So like, there is a social aspect to it, but the freedom and the American dream is a real thing.
And this is this, I, you know, I joke about being Russian, but I, I'm an American and this is,
I do believe the greatest country on earth. So there's a reason the nationalist pride,
the pride in your nation is a powerful thing. And around that, this secrecy holds value.
But to me, alien technology is bigger than that. I mean, it's, it's not so much a threat as a,
you're holding back something that could inspire the world, like a human knowledge.
So let's talk in theory. So I'm going to go back to Bob, because I've talked to Bob.
So Bob is a propulsion guy. Right. Right. Bob has a bicycle with a rocket motor. He built the rocket car,
you know, so he did that. So if you are trying to figure out a propulsion system,
let's just say this is, I'm just talking, this is Dave's theory. I am, I own, I have,
I have custody of this thing from a technology that I don't understand. And I know it's a
propulsion system. So now I got to figure it out. Right. So who are you going to go to?
Right. You go find someone. So you go, wait, here's a guy who at the time was working at
Los Alamos, which they have proven, who is big into propulsion. He designs all this. He builds a
shit in his garage. Hey, he's super smart. Why don't we bring him in? So you hire him on a
contract and you go, Hey, we're going to brief you into a program and he goes and works on
wherever he says he worked. You know, that's not important, but you get access to the technology
to try and figure it out. And then you go, well, you know, Bob comes out and says, you know,
I, we're figuring out these things, but there's a part where our technology isn't advanced enough
for us to figure the whole thing out. So then, you know, and let's just say Bob doesn't come out
and tell anyone, he works on it until he gets to the point where he's stagnated. He's at a,
he's at a wall. You go, I can't do it. So sometimes the best thing is to bring in a
fresh mind. So you go find someone else who's in a propulsion, you bring him in, they work,
they can't figure it out, or they get to the point where kind of back to the Einstein theory
where, Hey, I've got all these theories on how it works, but we don't have the technology. We
haven't advanced enough to actually do what we need to do. We still have to advance technology
more. So then what do you do? You shelf it. You go, Hey, good projects over and the contract,
you shelf it, and you wait another 10 years. And you wait another 10 years until technology and
our abilities and our research advances more. And then you go find new people to bring in that
are experts in that field and go, Hey, we want you to work on this thing. And here's what we
know about it so far. Or you don't tell them anything. Cause you, cause remember, if you were,
if you reveal someone else's research, you can taint their beliefs, they'll start to sway in
that direction. So you go, I'm not going to tell you anything. I'm going to give you this thing.
And now you tell me what you think. And as they progress, if they get stuck on a problem that
may be Bob and someone else solved earlier, you can go, Hey, what about this? You don't have to
tell them where it came from. What about this? And now they can leapfrog and they get another
two steps closer to the final answer. And then we get stuck by our evolution of technology.
Do you shelve it again? Do you think that's the right way to do it? Because it's heartbreaking.
Listen, I love government, but we just had this discussion about Elon and so on. The alternative
approach is to release this to the world and say there's a mystery here. And then the Elon's of
the world that Jeff Bezos, we talked about money, but it's also not just money. It's like
this engine that's within, we talked about the American dream to say, I'm going to be the one
that cracks this mystery open. And like that's within a lot of us. And like money aside, people
in their garage just will. But you're thinking like a scientist. Now let me shift to, let me
think like a country. So we have country A, B and C. And you can look at the nuclear arms race. So
we know that Germany was really close. We know that Russia was getting pretty close. We just won
the race and we were the first ones with it. And still to this day. And Germany could have won.
They could have won. They could have won, but someone was smart enough to not finish the equation
when they knew they had the answer is literally what it comes down to. Someone was smart enough
to realize that that got into the hands of the Nazis, that it would be the end. And that's
a tough call to do that knowing that you have the answer and you can't solve the problem because
it will go into the wrong hand. And that's kind of the fear when you look at this, you go,
okay, so if we do this, if we put it out there, we've got this technology. If we don't work on it,
kind of international space station, like we're all going to work on it together,
you know, like Antarctica is really supposed to be treaty free for many weapons or anything
more. We've got the international thing down there. We're all going to work together. If you
did it in the confines of that and you could control the flow in and out, because what you
don't want is the someone stealing information and getting it back to where, and countries
are notorious to do this. Hey, we're doing it internationally, but we're secretly doing it
ourselves to see who can come up with the solution first. That's the problem, because we have this
inherent thing of power and technology like that is power. It would literally change the game of the
way the world operates. And from not just a transportation or mankind, but from a military
aspect, it's got huge, huge. Yeah, so beautifully presented. And I feel like there's a tension
between those two places, the scientists view of the world and the national security view of the
world. Let me get to this kind of interesting point, which is a lot of conspiracy theorists kind
of paint a picture of government as an exceptionally, as a hierarchical system that's exceptionally
competent and good at hiding secrets. And then, I mean, I tend to not subscribe to almost any
conspiracy theory to the degree at least that the conspiracy theorists do, but there does seem to be,
and I tend to think of government as unfortunately incompetent, at least the bureaucracy,
it seems that the communication like the three videos that were released and just the way
of DOD in general talks about the things we've been talking about, it's just confused. There's
contradictory. It's not inspiring. It's, it's suspicious. It's just not even the way they
released the videos, you know, the tic tac, if presented correctly, could just inspire a generation
of scientists. It's like, you know, us going to the moon, it's inspiring. I mean, it's incredible,
and the way it was released, it was suspicious. It was like low resolution video on a crappy website,
like with some crappy documents. And I mean, why, I don't know how to ask this question, but can
government do better? Why are they doing it this way in terms of communicating the things they do
know to the public? Because I don't think they know how. Especially in this topic, it's been
hidden for so many years. And I don't think, because I don't buy off on the conspiracy stuff,
I just think that, you know, when it comes in, like I said, you know, the government has a right
to classify stuff, they classify everything because they don't know. You have something,
you don't know what it is, you don't know. So we just go, well, it must be top secret,
and let's put it in a vault. You know, it's kind of like the Indiana Jones where they take the
Ark and they put it in the, it's in the giant army warehouse. You know, we don't even know what we
have. So, but I also believe that, you know, and I'll say this openly, I don't think that the American
people need to know everything. I think there's a reason that stuff is classified for the protection
of this country. And I totally believe in that. So, you know, I was joking with Joe when he was
talking about the Storm Area 51 stuff. Yeah, that's probably the worst idea you could possibly have
is to just storm a military installation. It's just stupid. There are reasons, there are reasons
that we have things that we don't just let out to the public because if we do, as soon as you do,
let someone know that you have something, they immediately try to counter it. And perfect example,
the US in the 60s developed a bomber. It was a Mach 3 compression lift bomber called the XB70.
Okay, there was three of them built, three of them ever built. It was a like 60,000 foot high,
you know, Mach 3, maybe it was an incredible airplane when you see it. And there's actually
the last one remaining is in Dayton, Ohio at the museum. You know, it would go, the wingtips
would fold on, it looks like a Concorde, but it's way faster. When that got out that we were
developing it, the Soviet Union developed the MiG 25, literally a high altitude interceptor to
counter that bomber. And they built an entire fleet of MiG 25s, right? We built three XB70s
and we scrapped the program, right? Because now you go, well, it's, the technology is cool, we
proved it, but now it becomes obsolete. So it's not even worth building a whole fleet of these
things. You know, it's constant, it's a chess game. We do something, they do something, we do
something, they do something, and it's, we do something, and then they counter it. They got
to, it's, you got to figure out how to defeat it. So you go, oh, we'll build something. So the more
we keep quiet, especially from a defense standpoint, the better. We actually, I personally, I think we
talk too much. And I think the military and the DoD is starting to see that, you know, we're too
open, you know, you announce, hey, we're building this because there's a budget line and we live
in a free society. But you don't have to release all the specs. And you don't have to put everything
in open source. But that's a problem when we go to the universities. If we want to go do work with
MIT, and you want to partner with MIT and your defense company, and you want to partner, you
know, you guys have a rule that if you create it, then it can be open source because the university
owns it. And we are an institution of learning, where the defense side might go, we don't, we
don't really want that published in a paper in Scientific America.
It's so hard to break it. I talked to CTO of Lockheed, Kiko Jackson, and just, just concords. The
some of the best, if not the best engineering and science, but engineering really ever is done
in secrecy. And it sucks, because it's so inspiring, and they can't talk about it.
It is, but some of it's due to funding. The US government has deep pockets.
You know, some of this new technology that you developed for an open source and lesson,
this goes back to the original conversation. We now, there's enough money in the private sector
that individuals control. Bezos, I'm not talking Amazon. I'm talking Jeff Bezos.
It's single individual.
It's worth over $100 billion. He has the ability to do stuff. I'll tell you what,
the Gates Foundation, with between Bill Gates and his wife and Warren Buffett and some of the
other money, because I think Bezos's ex wife actually donated a huge chunk of her half into
the Gates Foundation. So, I mean, what's the Gates Foundation worth these days?
You know, if, and these are guys, you know, brilliant, brilliant. I mean, some of the
greatest minds that we have to go, what are they doing? Because they have the ability,
it's a nonprofit. They can go, hey, I want to fund this. I want to fund this research.
They can look beyond the conflict between nations.
You can look beyond the conflict of having to have, you know, classification. You could do
what you want. You know, it's just like, you know, we classify how to do, you know, the whole
nuclear, you know, how to create a critical mass, right? But there's really smart high school kids
that have figured it out mathematically and they do their science projects and then the government
comes in and says, hey, we got to classify your government because we just don't want this out
in the public domain, which I understand. But they never stopped them from free thought and
developing that. It's just, we really don't want this out there. Okay, so I understand that.
I totally understand that. But if they, you know, if Bill and Melinda want to do this and go, hey,
we want to do this and they're going to work with Bezos and they're going to work with Elon and we're
going to, you think about it, there's a significant amount of money that could be available to R&D
and I'm not talking just science like this. I'm talking medical research and all this.
But then you go, well, who gets it? Because now you're competing against the companies that actually
do it. And you go, is that, well, are they the greatest minds? I'd say, you know, we have a tendency
to go, these are the best that we have. And I'd say, well, no, that's the best that we know we have.
But there's probably people out there that don't want to work. There's brilliant minds that don't
want to do anything with the fence because they just disagree with what it does. So they go do
another path. They could do something else. And in the sense that the Elon's of the world that
Jeff Bezos actually, in a certain sense, much better than DOD at finding the brilliant weird
minds out there. Because they're not tied to the government. So when you work a government contract,
the government writes, they tell you what they want and then they work with you on the requirements
and they usually have an end in mean, you know, they have an idea that this is what I want it to be
where if you go to like SpaceX, where, you know, they come up with, why don't we just
land these things on a pad and reuse them? Yeah. Well, if the government scientists,
if you're on a government contract says, no, that's not the requirements, we're not paying for that,
we want you to do this, you're kind of controlled. Or when Elon does it, his company,
they can do whatever the hell they want to do because they have no bounds. The only bounds they
have is the liability if it doesn't work and it lands on something. So what do you do? You go out
to Quadrillion and you test it. And if it crashes and it lands in the ocean, hey, we cleaned it up,
no big deal, we lost some money, but we'll move on. It's, you know, money makes the world go
around contrary to what everyone thinks. But, you know, there's a lot of money that's sitting
around that you can do a lot of really cool stuff with. And I don't know. I mean, I'll guarantee
that, what is it, Blue Origin? Isn't that Amazon? You know, that they're doing some cool stuff because
they have funny. And I joke with the guy I know that worked at SpaceX and he was funny because
they were building the first test thing and they were limited and Elon found this like 400 acre
thing, I think it's about 400 acres down by Waco, Texas. And he's like, I go, how he goes, he goes,
dude, I worked, he goes, I worked with, he goes, because he's done government contract. He goes,
there's government contract and then there's working at SpaceX with Elon money. And that's
what he refers to it as is Elon money where it was like, don't I'll throw them and he would throw
the money at it and make it happen. And it's, I'm talking this fast. I mean, he talks about,
he has a great story about this. I mean, this is Elon, but this is how fast you can do in the
private sector vice the government where there's the bureaucracy is they had a company that was a,
basically a tool and dye machine shop that did a lot of their high precision parts for the rockets.
They had went to the guy, but he had contracts with other companies. And when the economy was down,
the guy was actually looking at going out of business. So the guy, I know, he's telling me the
story. He was talking to the guy, he had to go over there and get something. And he's like, holy
shit, he goes, hang on. So he calls up on the phone, SpaceX. He says, Hey, is Elon there?
Can you get him in the boardroom? We'll be there in 20 minutes. So he grabs this guy who's literally
going to fold his company. They go over to SpaceX and I may be getting some of this wrong if people
are going to fact check me, but this is pretty close. They go in the boardroom and he said literally
within like, you know, an hour or two, Elon has bought the guy's company. That guy is now a senior
VP running his company. And they're going to pull all the stuff into the SpaceX thing so they can
actually build the parts and they can still contract out to make the money outside. And it
happened like that fast. And it's not just money. It's because I've seen, I've witnessed it too
with Elon. I think it's whatever the, whatever the forces of capitalism that allow a person like
Elon Musk to rise to the top. But like, because I've also worked for DARPA, like for research,
for in terms of a source of funding, I, there's a weight of bureaucracy when I was working,
like being funded by DARPA. And with Elon, like I was literally in the presence of like
anything is possible, cutting across all the bullshit of paperwork of the way things were done
in the past of the bureaucracy, the rules, the constraints, the, all of that stuff, just you
can cut across immediately. How much money and time do you waste dealing with the bureaucracy
when you could actually be doing real work? That's the difference. This is why, honestly,
when I went back to the industrial defense complex that we were warned about, when you look at it
and go, SpaceX can do something for half the price ahead of schedule that would Boeing were
paying Boeing. And you go, Oh, well, this just came out. And you go, well, then why are we even
dealing with this side when we can deal with this side? Because you've got a fully automated capsule
that has a manual mode that they got to fly around in. It worked like a champ. It went up,
it hung out, it came back, it splashed down. It worked perfectly. You know, we're going to dust
it off. And oh, by the way, unlike the Apollo capsules that were used and put to museums,
they're going to reuse that dragon capsule. It came down, they're going to dust it off,
put a new coat of paint on it, slap it on top of another rocket and away it goes. Holy cow.
It's amazing. It's a shift. It's a complete shift in mentality. And for us as taxpayers,
we can explore at half the cost. Yeah. It's exciting, especially given putting the tic tac in
context, like then the sky or it's limitless the possibilities we could do with this kind of mechanism.
I think it's exciting. Yeah. Super exciting. I think we live in an exciting time right now,
besides everything that's messed up in the world right now. Well, this is a hopeful,
like there's so much conflict going on, so much tension. That's to me, space exploration at the
moment is a reason to get up in the morning and have a hope for the future to look up to the sky.
And we're humans. We can solve so many. We can solve all of this.
I was talking about when I was doing the Tucker thing and I said,
is this would be great? Because when the government had come out a month ago and said,
hey, this does exist. We're doing this. And oh, we're going to release more stuff.
And I was texting like Lou and Chris Mellon and those guys before I went on because they
had called me up to be on Tucker's show and I'm like, hey, I go, this would be great. Just come
out with this. Find the relic of a spaceship. Like pull out the Roswell wreckage if you have it.
Pull out the Roswell wreckage into it. God, it would be so nice to not have to deal with
the riots in the cities. And I mean, I know it's an election year and all that, but
God, it would be something, it would be refreshing to not have to turn on my TV and see
everything that is just depressing in the world. To begin with, holy cow, we actually do have this
and we're working on this technology.
They imagine if there is a Roswell aircraft and they pull it out, imagine the innovation
that happens in the next 10 to 20 years without any more information than that.
Just the, the innovation that happens, the look on, you know, Musk's face,
look on Jeff Bezos's face and all the brilliant engineers.
It would change the game. It would change the game completely.
Let me ask the big question. I apologize for the absurd romantic nature of it.
But outside, I mean, one of the things, the fact that you've laid your eyes on a UFO,
probably open your eyes to the possibility that some of the other sightings,
there, there could be other sightings that have legitimacy to them.
What do you, is the outside of your own sighting is the most interesting
sighting or UFO related event in history?
Oh, I think there's several.
What is it? Ramachan Forest in England, the U.S. guys that saw stuff and actually got
radiation burns. One guy was medically disabled, but they weren't going to give it.
And he had to help from Jim McCain. His office helped get the guys,
disability reestablished. I think that's a big one.
I think there's people out there that have seen stuff and I'm talking credible
because there's, you got to remember, there's a huge chunk of the sightings that get
disproven. They're actually explainable. You know, you had sent me the question,
the Phoenix lights.
Phoenix lights.
I think there's...
What's that? So I'm sorry, I'm not familiar with some of these.
I'm not either. You want a funny story on that. So I was at a conference and said,
hopefully he doesn't watch this and get offended. But we had this,
this, it was, I call it speed dating. So there was a table, about eight people at a table.
And we would go sit at the table and they could ask us questions and then after 10
minutes, we moved to the next table. So I was speed dating all these people that are really
into this. It was kind of funny, but I'd sat down and it's always funny because some people will
try and dominate it, but you know, you have to kind of push the dominators away so that,
you know, if you're quiet and introverted, you can ask your question too. So we got into this
and the guy starts naming all these, well, what about this? What about the Phoenix lights?
I'm like, I don't know about the Phoenix lights. What about this event? I don't know about that.
He goes, he looks at me and he goes, well, you're not a UFO guy. I go, no, I'm not,
but I chased one. So I'm an expert. Have you? And you could see him get deflated because I'm
kind of a smart ass like that. Yeah. I mean, the first hand experience from a credible,
in some sense, these sightings have to do both with the evidence and the human.
Well, I think part of that is to us, that that's a credibility piece because the four of us that
actually saw it plus, you know, the other two that were in the airplane that shot the video,
none of us are UFO obsessed people. So when we come out and say, because to me, it's just in,
it's five minutes of my life. I did a lot of really cool, I've had a really kind of neat
things I've been able to do. But when you look at it and go, we don't, to me, it wasn't, it's not
the pinnacle of my life. You know, to other people that they live in the UFO world and it's like they,
you know, if you talk to people, they'll go that are really into it, who've never seen one.
And it kills them that they didn't see one. When here we are because, and what's unique with ours,
which kind of adds that level is it wasn't, we just didn't see it. It wasn't like, oh,
look, something in the sky and it was weird. We actually engaged with it. You know, it was,
yeah, that was an engaged five minute thing. And there's other stories from other countries,
like there's a story in the back when the Soviet Union existed, that they actually
would chase these things and one of them shot at some, you know, it shot it because they said shoot
at it and it shot it and then it got shot down. And then they said, don't ever shoot at them again
and don't chase them. Just you can observe them, but don't go after them because obviously they
have firepower that we can't control because if you can make something float around and jam radars
at will and do whatever you want, you know, modern terrestrial weapons are probably not very useful.
You know, you can go to Independence Day, they had that force field around, oh, we got a,
we got it. Now you got a cyber warfare, you got to take the bug down, you got to take the warfare.
So now we can actually inhibit some type of damage. So there's a, I mean, you mentioned
the Phoenix lights. This is somebody on, I think Reddit said, ask him any thoughts on mass UFO
sightings like the Phoenix lights. So the interesting thing, like you said with the tic tac is that
multiple people laid their eyes on this. What are your thoughts about the Phoenix lights or
many people? So here's a deal with massive sightings. So the Phoenix lights is unexplainable,
although I know the Air Force had said something about it was an A10 drop and flares. I don't think so.
Flares don't burn that long. They just come out and they, you know, they detract and they go away.
Although on the other hand, there's, you know, because clouds can do things. So I lived in
Central California for 18 years and you would get, oh my God, what was that in the sky? And it was
really Vandenberg shooting a missile off. You know, they were doing ICBM tests at one time where they
shoot from Vandenberg and they fly across, then they go land in the atoll at Kwajalein, you know,
and then they can check the displacement, the accuracy and all that stuff, you know, stuff
that we do because we're super power. But when you see them go up, you know, especially if you've
ever watched a rocket really launch on a clear night, it'll have the stream to glow and you can
tell it's a rocket. But if you don't look up until later, when it starts to get to the outer edge of
the atmosphere where the plume coming out of the engine is not constrained, but you can watch this
on TV when even the SpaceX ones go up, it's nice and narrow, narrow, narrow. And then it hits a
point where it really starts to go up and it starts to come to the sides because there's,
you know, the forces aren't holding that all into one unique thing. And it looks really odd.
And then it'll go off because it burns out and then you could stay separate. And then you see
the next one go off and then it's gone. And people don't understand it because they didn't
watch it from launch because we used to sit in our driveway and, you know, Vandenberg is,
it was a three hour drive, but you could sit and watch it go, you knew in there and launch
and at night you'd watch. You'd watch and it's really cool. If you don't see anything, what you
see is the weird clouds from the exhaust plume, you know, what's left, the residue that's sitting
in the atmosphere and the wind starts blowing us. You get these really kind of weird shapes in the
sky. You know, that's part, but when you go to Phoenix lights and you go, hey, you know, when
1,000 people see some, you're going to discredit all 1,000 people, or you're going to try and
explain it away with something else, you know, the, you know, the big, it's a weather balloon,
you know, it's a weather balloon. Again, just like the tic tac, I think is just inspiring
for the limitless nature of the science. I think you're, I think more is going to come out. I think
some of the stuff that the, the Two The Stars folks have done.
So there's a Two The Stars Academy. What are your thoughts about them? Are they?
I talk to them quite a bit. I am not a part of Two The Stars Academy. I, you know, but, you know,
like I talked to Lou, I just was texting him before this. Yeah. So he, they're, what's their
mission? What's their hope? What's their, what's their, when they started, their mission was to
try and don't look at this as little green men, but let's look at this as a technology
and let's try and almost reverse engineer and figure out how these things operate and how can
we explain this from using our knowledge, you know, physics based knowledge to go, how would
something like this operate? That's really their bottom line was to try and use and then couple
that with, because they've got the series unidentified, couple that with television to get
the word out. So you're actually putting something instead of, because everyone has a theory, you
know, ancient aliens covers all kinds of theories, you know, it's kind of off of, oh my God. And,
and I've seen the stuff and I've seen stuff that I've said taken out of context on shows that I
did not talk to. So there's all that because you can take a clip and go, oh, it's this, it's that,
you know, and if I know about stuff like it, you can't technically use my likeness unless I tell
you you can. So if I haven't signed something, you can't do it. There was a guy who put something
out and I was in it and I told him, you can take it down and you can talk to the lawyers because
I'm not, I'm not supporting you. So they use it to tell some kind of narrative that doesn't,
it's not connected to reality. Because let's face it, if you're making TV shows, there's two
reasons to do it. One, you want to get word out or two, you want to make money or three both.
And so usually it's, I would say the, the make money is probably the biggest thing to put a TV
show out. And the, the mission of the, to the Starz Academy is to not do that. This is, is to
try to get some. When I, when they started and I talked to them because I've talked to Tom and I've
talked to Lou and those are the two main players, it was to basically demystify the fact and get rid
of the, the stigma that's tied to UFOs and let's look at it from a science base and then use TV
to get the word out on the progress. And they've done some pretty cool things. I mean, you know,
they've, the, the Italian government gave them all kinds of files that had been, you know, property
of their government. They got a bunch from, it might have been Argentina gave them all kinds of
stuff. Like here's all our records. What can you do with it to try and now pull from country based
to a more global based research, which is what you were talking about. And then using independent
scientists that are not tied to a government, I mean any government, but just using independent
research agencies to start looking at some of the metallurgy because you go, oh, I found this,
we had this piece of metal. What is it? And some of the stuff has been explained. They've got some
objects, artifacts that have not been explained. And that's slowly coming out, you know, and I think
and your hope is the US government will release some of the government is the government, the
US government came out a month ago and said, you, we have, we have, we have material that we cannot
explain the origin. They have said that they just haven't released the records from the Roswell
thing, which I keep joking about. I'm like, huh, it's 70 some years old. I mean, I let it out.
I think you put it beautifully that in this time, that will be a heck of an inspiring,
hopeful thing to see. Like people don't just to distract. Yeah. The division is,
I mean, nothing will unite us humans descendants of chimps.
Like the idea that there's life out there. Oh, it would literally change. Because I said this
a while ago, I forget, I think I was at the London sometimes had called me and I said,
you know, personally, I think this is a global issue. It's not. If there is stuff coming down,
which we're pretty sure there is, there's enough stuff that we can't explain.
If there is stuff coming down, then this is not a country based thing. And it's not about
technology. And it's not about who's going to win the next war, because you don't know what they're
doing. So you got really a couple of theories. One, you've got ET or close encounters. And the
other extreme is you've got independence day. Are you going to prepare and bet on ET and close
encounters? Or do you actually try and do stuff in case it is independence day, you actually have
a game plan. And when you get into independence day, that scenario, you know, and I don't like
going too much into sci fi, but let's just say in theory that that becomes a reality. It's not a US,
Russia, China, England, France, Spain, name any country in any continent, it becomes a global
issue. And the only way you can deny it, just like Americans, we all, you know, we're divided.
We spend that way forever. So if you think we won't get through this, we'll get through it because
we've had times just like this before. Until Nazi Germany pops up. But if Nazi Germany pops up,
or someone flies two airplanes into the World Trade Center, and then all of a sudden we're
all like United, we all also have very, very short memories. Yes, we do. Exactly. It's when you
look and go, well, we can do this. And you go, no, no, if you think that everyone on the planet is
good, you need to stop taking the drugs that you're taking. You know, we said this, there were people
during the rise of Hitler. No, no, it's okay. And no, no, it's okay. We're not going to do,
we're not going to stop. No, no, it's okay. No, no, it's okay. And you got to think the only thing
that stopped Hitler was his ego by going into Russia. If he just stuck with the path with Stalin
and not went to the east and had to fight, and it was really the Russian winner that crushed him,
and he would have put all his high troops to the other side, there would have been a totally
different outcome. The man in the iron, the man in the high tower or whatever, it's a Netflix show
where Nazi actually wins it. And you look, you know, we didn't know everything that was going on,
especially the atrocities with the concentration camps and what he was doing to the Jews.
I mean, it's, you look at that going, if you really want to see evil, and then there's the
whole side of what Stalin did, because he actually exterminated more people than Hitler did,
but that never gets the press. And the thing is, we forget this, we forget this history
in our conflicts today, we forget that there is the nature of evil, we forget that there's real
evil in the world. And the thing to fight that evil is to be united, to be both, it's like this
interesting line, like you talked about Joe Rogan, of being both like kind to each other,
compassionate, empathetic, but also being like strong and a bad motherfucker when you need to,
to make sure that you, that like, there's a balance between kindness and force that
is you use force when force is necessary, but you don't have to walk around like Billy badass
all the time. I mean, some of the toughest people that I grew up with that literally could kick the
shit out of whoever came near them. They never got in fights because one, even people that didn't
know them because they were actually nice guys, you know, they were, they're just good dudes.
But you know, if you cross them, like I had a friend of mine, he was, he's a nationally ranked
wrestler. It went to, went to Naval Academy with me. He's a very, very good friend of mine. And he
is, when you meet him, and he wrestled at 190 pounds, and he did not lose a match his senior
year until he went to nationals, he just had a bad day. He actually lost to a guy he had pummeled
the shit out of. And he would cross, it was funny, we joke about it, even with him, because when you
meet him, he's like the nicest like local, hey, hey, dude, you know, hey, how you doing? He's super
nice. And he would cross that ring on a wrestling mat. As soon as he crossed that ring, it was like
a totally different person. And he would go out there and just destroy people. I mean, physically
destroy, like put a hurt on. And he would get done, and he's like super humble, and they'd raise
his hand, and he would, he'd have this blank expression, they'd raise his hand, and he'd walk
off and as soon as he crossed the line, he'd, he'd look up and swung, hey, hi guys, how you doing?
Like he literally just went and could rip someone's arms off. But as soon as he crossed the line,
he was a totally different person. He's like, and he's that way today. He wouldn't even tell you
he's a wrestler. Yeah. That's kind of a symbol of the best of America. That's what America is.
Oh, he's. That wrestler. He's a. He crossed the line, you're, you're, you can be hard, but when,
once you're off the mat, you're just a kind human being. Yeah. I know you're super humble,
uh, saying it's better to be lucky than good, but your story is inspiring.
That's the entire trajectory of having a dream of accomplishing that dream,
of having one hell of a career. What advice would you give to a young person to a young
version of yourself today that listens to this and is inspired that wants to fly
or wants to go to space and wants to build the rocket? Is there advice you could give them
about life, about career, about anything? Yeah. Yeah. Um,
first let me start with, uh, and you had a question on inspirational people. So my grandfather,
I had mentioned him earlier, huge funeral, a beer delivery guy, um, was delivering beer in
the 60s riots where the guys, the black in the black neighborhoods where, you know, white people
didn't go. And my grandfather was just silly and he was one of the first ones in his family
born in the United States. So my great grandmother and I had aunts and uncles that I knew growing up
that actually came over on the boat. Um, huge, huge guy and just the nicest, friendliest would
give you the shirt off his back, obviously proven by his funeral. And I'm talking at his funeral,
the head of the Black Panthers was at his funeral in Toledo, Ohio. The mafia guys were at his funeral
in Toledo, Ohio. Uh, I mean, it was literally a mix of, of, of who's who. And, uh, he had told me
once, you know, because when you're little, you start looking and, and I grew up basically,
I was probably middle class, lower middle class. My dad was a fireman there. You're not rich.
He's working for the city. It was a paycheck to paycheck living is how I grew up.
And I was talking to my grandfather one day and he said something to me and this is,
this is literally how I run my life. He said, it was about money because you'd see, you know,
back in the day, if you saw someone in a Mercedes, that was rare. You know, they weren't
everywhere. You know, people didn't, you couldn't lease the car. He actually bought a car and
usually bought a car with cash. Um, so it was a totally different than we are now. And he said,
he goes, you know, David, he goes, they're no better than you and you're no better than anyone
else. He goes, you got to remember that. He goes, everyone's different. He goes, treat everyone
with the respect and dignity that they deserve. He goes, and if they're poor, if they're homeless,
he goes, it doesn't make them a bad person. It just, that's, that's who they chose to be. And
you make choices in your life, but never ever look down on someone because, you know, there will
always be someone that will look down on you and you should never ever do that. And I kept that
close to me. He was huge influences, my mom's dad, just a big, big influence in my life and the way I
carried myself. Um, and he was one that would say, you know, you can be anything you want to be,
you know, he grew up dirt poor, you know, and the fact that he had bought a house and took
good care of my grandmother and did stuff like that, you know, to him, that was a success.
And to me, it was always, you know, trying to better and move on. And he was the one,
you know, my parents were a big part of this too, was instilling that that anything is possible. So
when I'm four years and 11 months old in 1969, you know, and I'm watching Neil Armstrong walk on
the moon and I'm asking my mom and she says, well, they were all military pilots. And, you know, we
had an international guard that at the time was flying F 100. So I'm dating myself. Um,
and I was just fascinated with flight. And I just looked at that going, that's really what I want
to do. And I never lost sight of that. There was always, I could do this or do that. And
when I was going to go to college before I enlisted in the Marine Corps, I was accepted into natural
resources at Ohio State. And I'm like, ah, if I can't fly, I'll go be a forest ranger because I
wanted to hang out in one of those towers in Colorado and look for fires because that's just,
I like that stuff. You know, it was that or be an oceanographer because I was fascinated with
Jacques Cousteau. And actually that's my degree, my undergrad degree is Jacques Cousteau. So
influences are Neil Armstrong and Jacques Cousteau. I have an oceanography degree,
I got an MBA from the University of Houston, Goku's got to mention them. And so you're looking,
people go, what are you going to do with that? And I said, you know, I got an oceanography
degree because I got, well, I'm going to sail on the ocean. So at least if the ship sinks,
I'll know where I'm at. And that was a kind of a running joke. And then.
And then those, so these passions and underneath it is the, is the belief that
you can be anything you want to. You can. You know, I told my kids this, you know,
when they were young, you know, it was tough, especially for my son. So when Nate was about
five, six years, we knew Nate was colorblind. You know, my, my wife's brothers are both
colorblind. It's really color deprived, color to blind you see black and white. He can't tell,
he has issues with greens, reds, browns. It's funny if you're ever around someone like that.
Because I'll go, I'll go, what are you looking at? He goes right over there by the red thing. I'm
like, what are you looking at? I go this, I like, he had a hat on one day. I go, which one are you
going to get? He had a hat in his hand. It was green. He goes, I'm going to get the green one.
I go, oh, this one right here. He goes, no, the one on my head. I go, Nate, that one's brown.
He's like, leave me alone, dad. He got the brown hat because to him, it looked green.
So he couldn't fly. He came and he said, I go, what do you want to do, Nate? You know,
you're talking to your kids and you know, what do you want to do? He goes, I want to be a pilot.
Now, now I got to tell him, because he's looking at me because I'm a pilot,
do you can't be a pilot? He's like, why can't I be a pilot? I said, because you, you got eye issues.
You know, so you got to redirect. And the other one was because I had to, I stopped flying. I was
42 years old and I was like, and it was my childhood dream. So it's like a pro athlete. I know exactly
what it feels like when, you know, Brett Favre has to walk away from the NFL when you still can do it.
Good choice of quarterback, by the way, the greatest of all time, but whatever.
So you do, when you look at it and you go, I understand what those guys feel like when you
have to walk away from something that you love and you think you can still do it.
So I told them, I said, look, I was talking to both of my kids and I said, you know,
find something that you want to do, that you love to do, and that you can do your whole life.
And you should be able to do good things for other people. You want to be able to help other people.
That's what I said. So both of my kids, and there's no one in my family, both of my children,
one of them is, my daughter is a doctor doing residency in internal medicine right now.
And my son is in his third year and they're both going to be doctors. And so I look at it as, you
know, people go, oh, you got two doctors. I don't care. I told my kids, if you want to be a garbage
man or you want to dig ditches, I don't care. Just be the best ditch digger that you can be.
I said, and be happy doing it. Because what you also find is that we are in this big pursuit of
money, money, money, money, money, money, money. That's what makes the world go round.
But what you realize, and I'll go back to my grandfather, who didn't have a lot of money,
and he was probably one of the most happy people on life. And unfortunately,
he died at 65. He had a massive heart attack because he didn't tell that he kind of knew
it was happening. And he just made the choice to do it. It was devastating to the entire family.
But he didn't have a lot of money. But I'll tell you what, I know a lot of rich people who have
funerals and there's nobody at them. And my grandfather, who's a beer delivery guy, had,
it literally, it was like three miles long. It was crazy. Yeah. Who died the Pope? That was
because he's a Catholic. He's Italian. He goes, who died the Pope? And I go and ask my grandfather.
And then the next funeral I went to was my aunt, his sister. And it was like, 30 people. And I
looked at my mother and I said, where's everybody at? She goes, oh, no, this is normal. This is
what a normal funeral looks like. So for young kids, bottom line, one, be nice. Kindness will get
you, I'm a big believer in karma. Kindness will get you a long way in the world. It's easy.
It's easy to be nice. It doesn't cost you anything. I said, and get rid of the hate.
And number two is follow your dreams because everyone is capable of everything. And there's
a self realism. If you really have trouble with math, getting a PhD in applied math,
it's probably not something you're going to be able to do. But understand yourself what your
own capabilities are and you know inside your heart. Don't let anyone ever tell you what you
can and can't do. You have to determine that yourself and go for it. And you can do anything.
It's just, it's a great, the world's incredible. It really is.
Let me ask the last big ridiculous question. So you've lived
much of your life, your career is kind of at the edge of life and death. So let me ask kind of
several different ways, the same kind of question. One, do you, have you pondered your mortality,
the finiteness of it? And the bigger question to ask even in the context of your tic tac encounter
is what do you think is the meaning of this thing we got going on here, the meaning of life, human
life in this sense? So let me start with, have I pondered my own mortality? Yes, quite often.
And I don't get into my religious beliefs or what I am, but I will tell you that I do believe in God.
I've just seen too many things in the world that I can't explain.
And some people will explain it by subconscious. So I'll give you a story and this kind of puts
in the thing of, do I fear death? So I had a good friend of mine that I used to fly with.
We were stationed in Japan together and Japan had this incinerator that put all kinds of dioxins.
So there's a real high cancer rate for those that served on the base in Natsuki, Japan.
Him and his wife had one son and their son passed away just before his 18th birthday of cancer.
And I was hanging out with, I'll call him John, and I was hanging out with John. We were in oil
and gas. He had come to the same company and we were doing an event together. And he was opening
up to me because we were actually the demo pilots. We do the demonstration for air shows and stuff.
And him and I were sitting there talking and he was giving me the whole story and how he had
really changed his look on life that we're only here for a finite time and that we're all going
to die. Well, unfortunately, after all that, when it was really going, him and his wife had moved to
a location that would fit there close to the water where they could do stuff. And I won't say
where. And he was doing what he loved to do and he got diagnosed with throat cancer.
And I was talking to him, it was probably about maybe two months before he died.
And I said, dude, you're sad. I mean, this is your friend. And I'm kind of really bummed out.
And this is the guy, this is the guy that's dying of cancer. And here's what he tells me. He says,
Dave, dude, we're all going to die. He goes, but I have to look at it. I have to make the
best of the time that I have. And I said, I understand that. And he goes, with the exception
of not being with my wife, who he loved dearly, he goes, I'm okay with dying. I've had a really good
life. And about, because actually the original announcement when he finally passed away,
Buddy of mine called me because I don't do Facebook and his wife had put it on Facebook
that he had passed. And about the day before he died, for some reason, I was thinking about him.
And I had a dream where I think it was a dream or an altered reality, you can get into whatever.
But he was there. It was just him and I. And I was really sad in the dream. I was actually crying,
and he was there. And he was actually in his uniform. He was in his whites because he was a
Navy. And we were just talking and he looked at me and he said, and this isn't my dream. He's like,
Dave, it's all going to be okay. And this is like, and this is a vivid conversation I have.
There's people are going to think I'm weird about this, but I know what my dream was. And
then maybe it's my subconscious creating the dream. But in reality, to me, this was real,
that it was put there for a reason. And he basically explained everything. It's okay.
I'm going to be fine. My wife is fine. He goes, this is what's meant to be.
But in the bottom line was make use of every day that you have because you don't know.
And literally two days later, I find out that he passed.
But ultimately, he accepted the finiteness of it.
He did. Well, you have to. And it's like I talk about money and job position and this and that.
And I said, you can get in any, you can go to a company. Just remember,
when you want to be a VP of a company, you sell your soul to the company. You have to.
I said, if you look, I joke with people at work. And I said,
I said, when you ever think that you're important or this guy has that, I said,
when you're sitting on 93 or 95, 128 and you're sitting in traffic and we're stopped,
which doesn't happen right now because of COVID. But normally it's stopped. It's
bumper to bumper in your sitting here, like I was coming down here by the gas tank.
When you're sitting there, look left and look right, you know, and there can be a
Lamborghini or an S550 Mercedes. And on the other side, there could be some piece of crap car.
We're all sitting on the same freeway at the same time trying to do the same thing,
which is just get home so we can be with our family. Because the most important thing that we
have, it ain't money. It ain't our job. It's not our position. I go, because when it's all said
and done, you could be, you know, you can be with the exception of the presidents of the United
States. I mean, name the vice presidents. Most people can't. And eventually they're going to die.
Or eventually you're going to see a statue of a guy from the 1700s in the Boston area and you're
going to call, I don't even know who that guy was. Did he impact my life? He probably did. But
eventually people forget. You realize what's important now. And the one thing that you have
is your family and your close friends. And that's it. You can take all the money or everything
else. If you're down on your luck, you know, who is going to be at we eyes as a joke? Who are your
true friends? It's the person while there's, there's a once that I won't say, but you know,
hey, you're broke down on a road in the middle of nowhere and it's three o clock in the morning.
Who are you going to call is going to get in their car without complaining and come and get you.
And that's life. Those are the people you love. It's, it's, it's the people you truly care about.
And contrary to, I have, you know, oh my God, I got 6,000 Facebook friends.
You got about that many real friends that you can count on. And that's it.
Everything else doesn't matter. No, it doesn't matter. It doesn't mean you don't be nice. I mean,
I have, there's acquaintance friends that I'll do anything for and then come to my house and
stuff. But then there's the people that, you know, you know, like my cousins who are like my brothers
that, you know, at a moment's notice, you know, when, when my uncle passed away at a young age,
you know, who lived literally right down the street from me and my cousin Chad, and I got
two boys, there's 14 of us, but there's only two boys. There's three of us together. And we all
grew up in the same neighborhood, same schools, play football together, all that. I said, if one
of those, if Ray or Chad ever needs me, if something happens, like when my uncle died, it wasn't,
it wasn't an issue if I'm coming home. It's I'm booking the ticket. I don't give a shit what
it costs because I will be there to be there with you. And then those two guys and my college
roommate is another one that I'm very, very close with, you know, if there's, I have a handful
of people that, you know, I will drop literally everything, even if my wife would be pissed at
me at times. She's like, seriously, I got to do it. And now she knows, and it's the same thing
with her. I mean, she knows that there are certain people in her life that if they really need her
and she has to go, she would go and I would let her go. So given all that, I'm honored that you
would come here and talk to me and take the time. Dave, it was one of the best conversations I've
ever had. Thank you so much. It's a pretty long one. It's probably sets the record for the longest
one. So I, I mean, I'm a loss of words. One of my favorite conversations. Thank you so much for
talking to you, Dave. You're welcome. Thanks for listening to this conversation with David Fraver
and thank you to our sponsors, Athletic Greens, ExpressVPN and BetterHelp. Please check out the
sponsors in the description to get a discount and to support this podcast. If you enjoy this thing,
subscribe on YouTube, review it with five stars and up a podcast, follow on Spotify,
support on Patreon or connect with me on Twitter at Lex Freedman. And now let me leave you with
some words from Carl Sagan. Somewhere, something incredible is waiting to be known. Thank you
for listening and hope to see you next time.